# PART 5 USER TERRITORY APIs

*Auto-compiled from Zoho CRM official docs | 17 pages*

---

## Get Notification Details | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/notifications/get-details.html`

Get Notification Details | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get Notification Details Purpose To get the details of the notifications enabled by the user. Endpoints GET /actions/watch Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}crm/{version}/actions/watch Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Appointments Rescheduled History, Services, and Custom Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.notifications.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record READ - Get notification details Parameters page Integer, optional To get the list of records from the respective pages. Default value is 1 . Possible values: Integer values. Example: 1(or)4(or)6 per_page Integer, optional To get the list of records available per page. Default value is 200. Possible values: Integer values. Example: 200(or)400 channel_id Integer, mandatory Specify the unique ID of the notification channel. Possible values: Channel ID. Example: 1000000068001 module string, optional Specify the API name of the module for which the notification is enabled. Possible values: Module API names. Example: Leads Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/actions/watch" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Note Use the page and per_page parameter to fetch records according to their position in the CRM. Let's assume that the user has to fetch 400 records. The maximum number of records that one can get for an API call is 200. So, for records above the 200th position, they cannot be fetched. By using the page (1, 2, 3 and 4) and per_page (100) parameter, the user can fetch all 400 records using 4 API calls. Sample Response Copied { "watch": [ { "notify_on_related_action": false, "channel_expiry": "2023-08-02T16:51:03-11:00", "return_affected_field_values": false, "resource_uri": "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads", "resource_id": "554023000000000125", "notify_url": "https://webhook.site/2c9xxx0fa9", "resource_name": "Leads", "fields": null, "notification_condition": [ { "field_selection": { "group_operator": "and", "group": [ { "field": { "api_name": "Last_Name", "id": "554023000000000559" }, "group_operator": null, "group": null }, { "field": { "api_name": "Full_Name", "id": "554023000000000597" }, "group_operator": null, "group": null } ] }, "module": { "api_name": "Leads", "id": "554023000000000125" }, "type": "field_selection" } ], "channel_id": "1000000068001", "events": [ "Leads.edit", "Leads.create", "Leads.delete" ], "token": "xyz" }, { "notify_on_related_action": false, "channel_expiry": "2023-08-11T02:12:33-11:00", "return_affected_field_values": false, "resource_uri": "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Contacts", "resource_id": "554023000000000129", "notify_url": "https://webhook.site/2c9axx20fa9", "resource_name": "Contacts", "fields": null, "notification_condition": null, "channel_id": "10000", "events": [ "Contacts.create" ], "token": "deals.all.notif" }, { "notify_on_related_action": false, "channel_expiry": "2023-08-11T02:13:01-11:00", "return_affected_field_values": false, "resource_uri": "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Deals", "resource_id": "554023000000000131", "notify_url": "https://webhook.site/2c9a0xx20fa9", "resource_name": "Deals", "fields": null, "notification_condition": [ { "field_selection": { "group_operator": "or", "group": [ { "field": { "api_name": "Stage", "id": "554023000000000525" }, "group_operator": null, "group": null }, { "group_operator": "or", "group": [ { "field": { "api_name": "Account_Name", "id": "554023000000000523" }, "group_operator": null, "group": null }, { "field": { "api_name": "Lead_Source", "id": "554023000000000535" }, "group_operator": null, "group": null } ] } ] }, "module": { "api_name": "Deals", "id": "554023000000000131" }, "type": "field_selection" } ], "channel_id": "10000", "events": [ "Deals.edit", "Deals.create", "Deals.delete" ], "token": "deals.all.notif" } ], "info": { "per_page": 200, "count": 3, "page": 1, "more_records": false } }

---

## Disable Notifications | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/notifications/disable.html`

Disable Notifications | Zoho CRM API | V8 Disable Notifications Purpose To stop all the instant notifications enabled by the user for a channel. Endpoints DELETE /actions/watch Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/actions/watch Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Services, and Custom Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.notifications.{operations_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to notification data DELETE - Delete notification details Sample Request Copied https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/actions/watch?channel_ids=10000" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -X DELETE Parameters channel_ids Integer, mandatory Specify the unique IDs of the notification channels to be disabled, separated by commas. Possible values: Channel IDs separated by commas. For example: 1000000068003,1000000068001. Sample Response Copied { "watch": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "resource_uri": "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Contacts", "resource_id": "554023000000000129", "channel_id": "10000" }, "message": "Successfully un-subscribed from actions-watch", "status": "success" }, { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "resource_uri": "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Deals", "resource_id": "554023000000000131", "channel_id": "10000" }, "message": "Successfully un-subscribed from actions-watch", "status": "success" } ] }

---

## Enable Notifications | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/notifications/enable.html`

Enable Notifications | Zoho CRM API | V8 Enable Notifications Purpose To enable instant notifications of actions performed on a module. Endpoints POST /actions/watch Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/actions/watch Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Services, and Custom Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.notifications.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to notification data WRITE - Edit instant notification details CREATE - Enable instant notifications Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/actions/watch" -X POST -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@inputData.json" Input JSON Keys token String, optional This value is sent back in the callback to ensure that the notification is from Zoho CRM. The maximum character length is 50. Possible values: Example: TOKEN_FOR_VERIFICATION_OF_1000000068001 notify_url String, mandatory The URL to be notified (POST request) about the action that took place in the module. Possible values: String values. Example: https://www.zoho.com/callback?authorization=Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.23dnsbbbh455jnn&key1=val1&key2=val2 channel_id long, mandatory The given value is sent back in callback URL body to make sure that the notification is for a particular channel. Possible values: Channel ID. Example: 1000000068001 channel_expiry String (ISO Date time), optional Represents the expiry time for instant notifications. The value can be a maximum of one week from the time they are enabled. If it is not specified or set for more than a week, the default expiry time is for one hour. Possible values: ISO Date time. Example: 2023-02-02T10:30:00+05:30 return_affected_field_values boolean, optional It returns the updated fields and their corresponding values to the specified notify_url. events JSONArray, mandatory To subscribe based on particular operations on selected modules. Possible values: JSON Array of the format ["{module_api_name}.{operation}", "{module_api_name}.{operation}"] . Example: ["Leads.create","Sales_Orders.edit","Contacts.delete","users.all"]. Possible operation types - create, delete, edit, all notification_condition JSONArray, optional To raise a notification only when an event occurs on certain fields of the module. This array contains the following keys: type - string, mandatory - Indicates that a notification is raised based on field updates. The value is field_selection . module - JSON object, mandatory - The API name and ID of the module on whose field events you want to receive notifications. field_selection - JSON object, mandatory - Contains a maximum of two objects with each object having the following keys: group_operator - string, mandatory - The supported operators are and and or . You can group the fields using these operators. group - JSON array, mandatory - Every field JSON object contains the API name and ID of the field in the module. You will receive a notification whenever any action happens on these fields based on their group operator. Note: You can have a maximum of 10 fields in the group array, irrespective of how you have grouped them. notify_on_related_action boolean, optional To enable notification when there is any action on any associated records. The default value is TRUE. To get notification on a URL On trigger of any notification-enabled event in a module, Zoho CRM sends a notification to the user through the notify URL. Sample Input Copied { "watch": [ { "channel_id": "10000", "events": [ "Deals.all" ], "notification_condition": [ { "type": "field_selection", "module": { "api_name": "Deals", "id": "554023000000000131" }, "field_selection": { "group_operator": "or", "group": [ { "field": { "api_name": "Stage", "id": "554023000000000525" } }, { "group_operator": "and", "group": [ { "field": { "api_name": "Account_Name", "id": "554023000000000523" } }, { "field": { "api_name": "Lead_Source", "id": "554023000000000535" } } ] } ] } } ], "channel_expiry": "2023-12-31T09:58:09+05:30", "token": "deals.all.notif", "return_affected_field_values": true, "notify_url": "https://webhook.site/2c9a0xxc20fa9" } ] } Possible Errors MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND HTTP 400 One of the mandatory fields (events, channel_id, notify_url, type, module) is not found. Refer to the "details" key in the response to know which mandatory field is missing. Resolution: Ensure that all the mandatory fields are given in the input. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The length of the token is greater than 50 characters. Resolution: Ensure that the token passed is less than 50 characters in length. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 Reasons: You have passed invalid data with invalid data type in the request body. The "details" key in the response gives you the JSON path to the invali

---

## Update Details of a Notification | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/notifications/update-details.html`

Update Details of a Notification | Zoho CRM API | V8 Update Details of a Notification Purpose To update the details of the notifications enabled by a user. All the provided details would be persisted and rest of the details would be removed. Endpoints PUT /actions/watch Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/actions/watch Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Services, and Custom Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.notifications.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to notification data WRITE - Edit notification details UPDATE - Update notification details Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/actions/watch" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -X PUT -d "@inputData.json" In the request, "@inputData.json" contains the sample input data. Input JSON Keys token String, optional This value is sent back in the callback to ensure that the notification is from Zoho CRM. The maximum character length is 50. Possible values: Example: TOKEN_FOR_VERIFICATION_OF_1000000068001 notify_url String, mandatory The URL to be notified (POST request) about the action that took place in the module. Possible values: String values. Example: https://www.zoho.com/callback?authorization=Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.23dnsbbbh455jnn&key1=val1&key2=val2 channel_id long, mandatory The given value is sent back in callback URL body to make sure that the notification is for a particular channel. Possible values: Channel ID. Example: 1000000068001 channel_expiry String (ISO Date time), optional Represents the expiry time for instant notifications. The value can be a maximum of one week from the time they are enabled. If it is not specified or set for more than a week, the default expiry time is for one hour. Possible values: ISO Date time. Example: 2023-02-02T10:30:00+05:30 events JSONArray, mandatory To subscribe based on particular operations on selected modules. Possible values: JSON Array of the format ["{module_api_name}.{operation}", "{module_api_name}.{operation}"] . Example: ["Leads.create","Sales_Orders.edit","Contacts.delete","users.all"]. Possible operation types - create, delete, edit, all notification_condition JSONArray, optional To raise a notification only when an event occurs on certain fields of the module. This array contains the following keys: type - string, mandatory - Indicates that a notification is raised based on field updates. The value is field_selection . module - JSON object, mandatory - The API name and ID of the module on whose field events you want to receive notifications. field_selection - JSON object, mandatory - Contains a maximum of two objects with each object having the following keys: group_operator - string, mandatory - The supported operators are and and or . You can group the fields using these operators. group - JSON array, mandatory - Every field JSON object contains the API name and ID of the field in the module. You will receive a notification whenever any action happens on these fields based on their group operator. Note: You can have a maximum of 10 fields in the group array, irrespective of how you have grouped them. notify_on_related_action boolean, optional To enable notification when there is any action on any associated records. The default value is TRUE. To get notification on a URL On trigger of any notification-enabled event in a module, Zoho CRM sends a notification to the user through the notify URL. Sample Input Copied { "watch": [ { "channel_id": "10000", "events": [ "Deals.all", "Contacts.create" ], "notification_condition": [ { "type": "field_selection", "module": { "api_name": "Deals", "id": "554023000000000131" }, "field_selection": { "group_operator": "or", "group": [ { "field": { "api_name": "Stage", "id": "554023000000000525" } }, { "group_operator": "and", "group": [ { "field": { "api_name": "Account_Name", "id": "554023000000000523" } }, { "field": { "api_name": "Lead_Source", "id": "554023000000000535" } } ] } ] } } ], "channel_expiry": "2023-12-31T09:58:09+05:30", "token": "deals.all.notif.changed", "notify_url": "https://webhook.site/2c9a0f7xxxc20fa9" } ] } Sample Response Copied { "watch": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "events": [ { "channel_expiry": "2023-08-11T02:04:14-11:00", "resource_uri": "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Contacts", "resource_id": "554023000000000129", "resource_name": "Contacts", "channel_id": "10000" }, { "channel_expiry": "2023-08-11T02:04:14-11:00", "resource_uri": "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Deals", "resource_id": "554023000000000131", "resource_name": "Deals", "channel_id": "10000" } ] }, "message": "Successfully subscribed for actions-watch of the given module", "status": "success" } ] }

---

## Update Specific Information of a Notification | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/notifications/update-info.html`

Update Specific Information of a Notification | Zoho CRM API | V8 Update Specific Information of a Notification Purpose To update only specific details of a specific notification enabled by the user. All the provided details would be persisted and rest of the details will not be removed. Endpoints PATCH /actions/watch Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/actions/watch Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Services, and Custom Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.notifications.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record WRITE - Edit records in the module UPDATE - Update records in the module Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/actions/watch" -X PATCH -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@inputData.json" In the request, "@inputData.json" contains the sample input data. Input JSON Keys token String, optional This value is sent back in the callback to ensure that the notification is from Zoho CRM. The maximum character length is 50. Possible values: Example: TOKEN_FOR_VERIFICATION_OF_1000000068001 notify_url String, mandatory The URL to be notified (POST request) about the action that took place in the module. Possible values: String values. Example: https://www.zoho.com/callback?authorization=Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.23dnsbbbh455jnn&key1=val1&key2=val2 channel_id long, mandatory The given value is sent back in callback URL body to make sure that the notification is for a particular channel. Possible values: Channel ID. Example: 1000000068001 channel_expiry String (ISO Date time), optional Represents the expiry time for instant notifications. The value can be a maximum of one week from the time they are enabled. If it is not specified or set for more than a week, the default expiry time is for one hour. Possible values: ISO Date time. Example: 2023-02-02T10:30:00+05:30 events JSONArray, mandatory To subscribe based on particular operations on selected modules. Possible values: JSON Array of the format ["{module_api_name}.{operation}", "{module_api_name}.{operation}"] . Example: ["Leads.create","Sales_Orders.edit","Contacts.delete","users.all"]. Possible operation types - create, delete, edit, all notification_condition JSONArray, optional To raise a notification only when an event occurs on certain fields of the module. This array contains the following keys: type - string, mandatory - Indicates that a notification is raised based on field updates. The value is field_selection . module - JSON object, mandatory - The API name and ID of the module on whose field events you want to receive notifications. field_selection - JSON object, mandatory - Contains a maximum of two objects with each object having the following keys: group_operator - string, mandatory - The supported operators are and and or . You can group the fields using these operators. group - JSON array, mandatory - Every field JSON object contains the API name and ID of the field in the module. You will receive a notification whenever any action happens on these fields based on their group operator. Note: You can have a maximum of 10 fields in the group array, irrespective of how you have grouped them. notify_on_related_action boolean, optional To enable notification when there is any action on any associated records. The default value is TRUE. To get notification on a URL On trigger of any notification-enabled event in a module, Zoho CRM sends a notification to the user through the notify URL. Sample Input Copied { "watch": [ { "channel_id": "10000", "events": [ "Deals.edit" ], "notification_condition": [ { "type": "field_selection", "module": { "api_name": "Deals", "id": "554023000000000131" }, "field_selection": { "group_operator": "or", "group": [ { "field": { "api_name": "Stage", "id": "554023000000000525" } }, { "group_operator": "and", "group": [ { "field": { "api_name": "Account_Name", "id": "554023000000000523" } }, { "field": { "api_name": "Lead_Source", "id": "554023000000000535" } } ] } ] } } ], "channel_expiry": "2023-12-31T09:58:09+05:30", "token": "deals.all.notif", "notify_url": "https://webhook.site/2c9a0xx20fa9" } ] } Sample Response Copied { "watch": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "events": [ { "channel_expiry": "2023-08-02T16:59:50-11:00", "resource_uri": "https://www.zohoapis.com.com/crm/v2/Deals", "resource_id": "554023000000000131", "resource_name": "Deals", "channel_id": "10000" } ] }, "message": "Successfully updated the subscribe details", "status": "success" } ] } Response JSON Keys server integer Represents the server time when the notification was sent to the notify URL. affected_values JSON array Represents the record ID and the values that were modified or affected. Here, the Mobi

---

## Disable Specific Notifications | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/notifications/specific-disable.html`

Disable Specific Notifications | Zoho CRM API | V8 Disable Specific Notifications Purpose To disable notifications for the specified events in a channel. Endpoints PATCH /actions/watch Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/actions/watch Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Services, and Custom Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.notifications.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to notification data WRITE - Edit notification details UPDATE - Update notification details Sample Request Copied https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/actions/watch" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -X PATCH -d "@inputData.json" In the request, "@inputData.json" contains the sample input data. Input JSON Keys _delete_events boolean, mandatory To specify whether to disable specific notifications. channel_id long, mandatory The given value is sent back in notification URL body to make sure that the notification is for a particular channel. Possible values: Channel ID. Example: 1000000068001 events JSONArray["{module_api_name}.{operation}", "{module_api_name}.{operation}"], mandatory To subscribe based on particular operations on selected modules. Possible values: JSON Array of the provided format. Example: ["Leads.create","Sales_Orders.edit","Contacts.delete"]. Possible operation types - create, delete, edit, all notify_on_related_action boolean, optional To enable or disable notification when there is any action on any associated records. The default value is TRUE. Note _delete_events key is mandatory to disable specific notifications. If "_delete_events": false or _delete_events key is not given in the input, instant notifications will not be disabled. channel_id and events keys are also mandatory. Sample Input Copied { "watch": [ { "channel_id": "10000", "events": [ "Contacts.delete" ], "_delete_events": true } ] } Sample Response Copied { "watch": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "events": [ { "resource_uri": "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Contacts", "resource_id": "554023000000000129", "resource_name": "Contacts", "channel_id": "10000" } ] }, "message": "Successfully removed the subscribe details", "status": "success" } ] }

---

## Get Organization Details | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-org-data.html`

Get Organization Details | Zoho CRM API | V8 Organization API Purpose To get the organization data. Endpoints GET /org Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/org Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.org.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to Organization data READ - Get Organization data Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/org" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/org" type: GET connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; Response JSON Keys country, city, street, state, zip string Represents the address of the organization. photo_id string Represents the unique ID of the organization photo file. Refer to upload files API for more details. description string Represents the description about the organization, if any. alias string Represents the alias name of the organization. created_time string Represents the date and time at which the org was created. type string Represents the environment type of the org. The possible values are production, sandbox, bigin and developer . currency string Represents the base/home currency details of the organization. deletable_org_account boolean Represents if the account related to this organization is deletable. id string Represents the unique ID of the organization. fax, mobile, primary_email, phone string Represents the contact details of the organization. employee_count string Represents the number of employees in the organization. website string Represents the website of the organization. currency_symbol string Represents the symbol of the base/home currency specified for the organization. For instance, '₹'. currency_locale string Represents the locale of the base/home currency specified for the organization. For instance, 'en_IN'. primary_zuid string Represents ZUID of the organization. This is the ID visible in the profile details in Zoho CRM UI. zia_portal_id string Represents Zia portal ID of the organization, if configured. time_zone string Represents the timezone of the organization. zgid string Represents the unique ZGID of the organization. country_code string Represents the unique code of the country that the organization belongs to. For instance, 'IN'. license_details JSON object Represents the license details of the organization. company_name string Represents the name of the company in the organization. iso_code string Represents the ISO code of the base/home currency of the organization. privacy_settings boolean Represents if the privacy settings are enabled for the organization. Possible values - true: Privacy settings are enabled for the organization. false: Privacy settings are disabled for the organization. mc_status boolean Represents if the multi-currency is enabled for the organization. Possible values - true: The multi-currency feature is enabled for the organization. false: The multi-currency feature is disabled for the organization. gapps_enabled boolean Represents if the Google Apps Integration is enabled for the organization. Possible values - true: The Google Apps Integration is enabled for the organization. false: The Google Apps Integration is disabled for the organization. domain_name string Represents the domain name of the organization. For instance, org694902300. translation_enabled boolean Represents if translation is enabled for the organization. Possible values - true: Translation is enabled for the organization. false: Translation is disabled for the organization. hipaa_compliance_enabled boolean Represents if HIPAA compliance is enabled for the organization. Possible values - true: HIPAA Compliance is enabled for the organization. false: HIPAA Compliance is disabled for the organization. Possible Errors INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to request URL section above. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: Client does not have ZohoCRM.org.READ scope. Create a new client with valid scope. Refer to scope section above. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 Permission denied to read Resolution: The user does not have permission to read records. Contact your system administrator. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in the server. Contact support team. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to endpoints section above. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 User does not have sufficient privilege to read organization data Resolution: The user does not have the permission to retrieve organization data. Contact your system administrator. Samp

---

## Get Users | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-users.html`

Get Users | Zoho CRM API | V8 Users APIs In Zoho CRM, a user is an individual who has access to manage and interact with CRM records. Users can have different roles and profiles, such as Administrators or Standard Users . The Users API allows you to retrieve basic information about CRM users. By using the type parameter, you can filter users based on their profile. For example, setting type=AdminUsers will return a list of users with Administrator profiles. Get Users Purpose To retrieve data about users based on the specified parameters. You can define the type of users you want to fetch using the type parameter. Example: type=AllUsers - Retrieves all CRM users. type=AdminUsers - Retrieves only administrators. type=ActiveUsers - Retrieves only active users. Endpoints GET /users Copy full URL GET /users/{user_id} Copy full URL {user_id} : Unique ID of the user. Request Details Request URL To get all users: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/users To get a specific user: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/users/{user_id} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 If-Modified-Since: Use this header to get the list of recently modified users. Example: 2019-07-25T15:26:49+05:30 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.users.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to users READ - Get user data Parameters type string, optional The type parameter allows you to specify the category of users to retrieve from Zoho CRM. Below are the possible values: Type Description AllUsers Retrieves all users (both active and inactive). ActiveUsers Retrieves only active users. DeactiveUsers Retrieves users who have been deactivated. ConfirmedUsers Retrieves users who have confirmed their accounts. NotConfirmedUsers Retrieves users who have not confirmed their accounts. DeletedUsers Retrieves users who have been deleted. ActiveConfirmedUsers Retrieves users who are both active and confirmed. AdminUsers Retrieves users with Administrator privileges. ActiveConfirmedAdmins Retrieves active and confirmed administrators. CurrentUser Retrieves the currently logged-in CRM user. page integer To get the list of user records from the respective pages. Default value is 1 . per_page integer To set the number of user records to be retrieved per page. The default and the maximum possible value is 200 . ids string, optional Represents the unique ID of the users. You can specify up to 100 user IDs. Note The page and per_page parameters are used to fetch user records according to their position in CRM. Let us assume that the user has to fetch 400 user records. The maximum number of user records that one can get for an API call is 200 . So, for the user records above the 200th position, they cannot be fetched. By using the page (1 and 2) and per_page (200) parameter, the user can fetch all 400 user records using 2 API calls. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/users?type=AllUsers" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Response JSON Keys country, city, street, state, country_locale, zip string Represents the address of the user. role JSON object Represents the name and ID of the role of the user. locale string Represents the user's locale. For instance, 'en_IN'. Modified_By JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user who last modified the user's details. Currency string Represents the user's currency preference. alias string Represents the alias name of the user. id string Represents the unique ID of the user. fax, email, mobile, phone string Represents the contact details of the user. first_name string Represents the first name of the user. Reporting_To JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user to whom the user reports to. created_time string Represents the date and time at which the user was created. website string Represents the user's website details. Modified_Time string Represents the date and time at which the user's details were last modified. profile JSON object Represents the name and ID of the profile of the user. last_name string Represents the last name of the user. time_zone string Represents the current user's timezone. created_by JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user who created the user. zuid string Represents the ZUID of the current user. confirm boolean Represents if the user is a confirmed user. Possible values: true: The user is a confirmed user. false: The user is not a confirmed user. full_name string Represents the full name of the user in the format specified in "name_format" key. dob string Represents the date of birth of the user. date_format string Represents the date format. For instance, 'MM/dd/yyyy'. time_format string Represents the time format. For instance, 'hh:mm a'. status string Represents the status of the user. Possible values: active: The user is active. inactive: The user is inactive. type__s string Represents the type of the user. Possible values: Regular User, Client Portal User, Sandbox Developer User

---

## Transfer and Delete a Territory | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/transfer-delete-territories.html`

Transfer and Delete a Territory | Zoho CRM API | V8 Transfer and Delete Territories Purpose To delete territories with child territories in your Zoho CRM organization. Such territories cannot be deleted directly through Delete Territories API. With this API, you can transfer the child territory to another parent territory and delete the territory you want to delete. End points POST /settings/territories/actions/transfer_and_delete Copy full URL POST /settings/territories/{territory_ID}/actions/transfer_and_delete Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To transfer and delete a specific territory: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories/{territory_ID}/actions/transfer_and_delete To transfer and delete multiple territories: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories/actions/transfer_and_delete Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtokend92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.settings.territories.All Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/territories/actions/transfer_and_delete" -X POST -d "@deleteterritories.json" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" In the request, "@deleteterritories.json" contains the sample input. Request JSON id string, mandatory if ID is not mentioned in the endpoint The unique ID of the territory you want to delete.Use the Get Territories API to get the ID of the territory. delete_previous_forecasts Boolean, mandatory Delete previous forecasts made by the territory transfer_to_id number, mandatory Parent territory to which child territory must be transferred. This territory must not be at the same heirarchy as the territory you want to delete. Note Child territory must not be transferred to a territory that is lower in hierarchy than its current parent territory. Maximum number of territories that can be deleted in one API call is 10 Sample Request Copied { "territories" : [ { "id" : "431581000000734117", "transfer_to_id" : "431581000000734217", "delete_previous_forecasts":false } ] } Possible Errors INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 Transfer_to_id is same as current parent territory Transfer_to_id is not a valid territory Transfer_to_id is not at a higher hierarchy than current parent territory Can't update the Org Territory Properties Except its Name Resolution: Refer to the "details" key in the response for the API name of the field that has the error in the input. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 The access token you have used to make this API call does not have the required scope. Resolution: Generate a new access token with the required scopes for this API. Refer to Scope section at the beginning of this page for the list of required scopes. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 The request URL is incorrect. Resolution: Specify a valid request URL. Refer to request URL section at the beginning of this page for more details. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Unexpected and unhandled exception in the server. Resolution: Contact the support team at support@zohocrm.com. Sample Response Copied { "territories": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "431581000000734117" }, "message": "Given Territory Removed Successfully and its child Territories moved to the another territory", "status": "success" } ] }

---

## Roles API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-roles.html`

Roles API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Roles APIs In Zoho CRM, Administrators assign roles to the users. Roles, such as Managers, Sales Reps, Supervisors, Product Management Staff, etc., denote the different levels of employees in a company. Use this API to retrieve information about various roles in Zoho CRM. Get Roles Purpose To retrieve the details about roles in your organization. Endpoints GET /settings/roles Copy full URL GET /settings/roles/{role_ID} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To retrieve all roles: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/roles To get a specific role: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/roles/{role_ID} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.roles.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to roles data READ - Retrieve roles data Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/roles/3652397000010189001" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/roles/3652397000010189001" type: GET connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; Response JSON display_label string Represents the display name of the current role. share_with_peers boolean Represents if the users with the current role have the permission to share records. Possible Values: true: The users with the current role can share records with other users. false: The users with the current role cannot share records with other users. Possible Errors INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to endpoints section at the beginning of this page. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 User does not have sufficient privilege to read roles Resolution: The user does not have the permission to retrieve roles data. Contact your system administrator. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 The access token you have used to make this API call does not have the required scope. Resolution: Generate a new access token with the required scopes for this API. Refer to the Scope section at the beginning of this page for the list of required scopes. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 Permission denied to read Resolution: The user does not have permission to read roles data. Contact your system administrator. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 The request URL is incorrect. Resolution: Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the Request URL section at the beginning of this page for more details. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in Server. Contact support team. Sample Response Copied { "roles": [ { "display_label": "SalesRep", "created_by__s": { "name": "Patricia Boyle", "id": "3652397000000186017" }, "modified_by__s": { "name": "Patricia Boyle", "id": "3652397000000186017" }, "forecast_manager": null, "share_with_peers": true, "modified_time__s": "2022-11-10T17:25:02+05:30", "name": "SalesRep", "description": null, "reporting_to": { "name": "Manager", "id": "3652397000000026008" }, "id": "3652397000010189001", "created_time__s": "2022-11-10T17:25:02+05:30" } ] }

---

## Disassociate users from territory | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/disassociate-users-territory.html`

Disassociate users from territory | Zoho CRM API | V8 Disassociate Users from Territory Purpose To disassociate users from a territory in your Zoho CRM organization. Endpoints DELETE /settings/territories/{territory_ID}/users Copy full URL DELETE /settings/territories/{territory_ID}/users/{user_ID} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories/{territory_ID}/users/{user_ID} or {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories/{territory_ID}/users Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.settings.territories.All (or) scope=ZohoCRM.settings.territories.DELETE (and) ZohoCRM.users.All Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/territories/431581000000744113/users?ids=431581000000258001" -X DELETE x-H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Parameters ids Represents the unique ID of the user you want to disassociate from the territory. This can be obtained from Get Users API Note A single user can be disassociated from the territory through the URL. You can disassociate single/multiple single users through the parameter ids Sample Response Copied { "users": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "431581000000258001" }, "message": "Given User Removed from the mentioned territory Successfully", "status": "success" } ] } Possible Errors INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The user is not a member of this territory. Resolution: Try to remove the users who is a part of the territory. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to endpoints section above. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in Server. Contact support team.

---

## Profiles API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-profiles.html`

Profiles API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Profiles In Zoho CRM, the administrator assigns a profile to every user which decides the user's level of access to Zoho CRM data. Use this API to get the details of different profiles. Get Profiles Purpose Retrieve the profile data of your Zoho CRM organization. Endpoints GET /settings/profiles Copy full URL GET /settings/profiles/{profile_ID} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/profiles To get a specific profile: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/profiles/{profile_ID} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.profiles.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to profiles data READ - Retrieve profiles data Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/profiles/3652397000000026011" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/profiles" type: GET connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; Response JSON display_label string Represents the display name of the current profile. created_time string Represents the date and time at which the current profile was created. modified_time string Represents the date and time at which the current profile was last modified. name string Represents the name of the profile. modified_by JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user who last modified the current profile. description string Represents the description of the profile, if any. id string Represents the unique ID of the profile. created_by JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user who created the current profile. type string Represents if the profile is a normal_profile , lite_profile or portal_profile . permissions_details JSON array Gives the details of the view, create, edit, and delete permissions given to the profile for different modules. Note that this array is rendered in the response only when you fetch a specific profile. Note The object with display_label zmeeting is removed from the permission_details array. In the response, under tool > categories , individual JSON objects are added for the features Zia and Share. Sample Response Copied { "profiles": [ { "display_label": "Administrator", "created_time": null, "modified_time": null, "custom": false, "permissions_details": [ { "display_label": "View", "module": "Leads", "name": "Crm_Implied_View_Leads", "id": "3652397000000026113", "enabled": true }, { "display_label": "Create", "module": "Leads", "name": "Crm_Implied_Create_Leads", "id": "3652397000000026107", "enabled": true }, { "display_label": "Edit", "module": "Leads", "name": "Crm_Implied_Edit_Leads", "id": "3652397000000026110", "enabled": true }, { "display_label": "Delete", "module": "Leads", "name": "Crm_Implied_Delete_Leads", "id": "3652397000000026116", "enabled": true }, { "display_label": "View", "module": "Contacts", "name": "Crm_Implied_View_Contacts", "id": "3652397000000026155", "enabled": true }... ] } ] }

---

## Associate Users with a Territory - API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/associate-users-territory.html`

Associate Users with a Territory - API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Associate Users with Territory Purpose To associate users with a territory in your Zoho CRM organization. Endpoints PUT /settings/territories/{territory_ID}/users Copy full URL PUT /settings/territories/{territory_ID}/users/{user_ID} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To associate multiple users with a territory in your Zoho CRM organization. {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories/{territory_ID}/users To associate a specific user with a territory in your Zoho CRM organization. {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories/{territory_ID}/users/{user_ID} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.territories.All (and) ZohoCRM.users.All Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/territories/431581000000744113/users" -X PUT -d "@addusertoterritories.json" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" In the request, "@addusertoterritories.json" contains the sample input. Input JSON users JSON Array (Mandatory if user id is not given in the request URL) Represents the unique ID of the user you want to associate with the territory.This can be obtained from Get Users API Note A single user can be associate with the territory directly through the URL with the end point {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories/{territory_ID}/users/{user_ID} Sample Request Copied { "users": [ { "id": "431581000000258001" } ] } Possible Errors ALREADY_EXISTS HTTP 400 User Already exists in this Territory. Resolution: Check the ID of the user you wish to associate. LIMIT_EXCEEDED HTTP 400 Maximum Users Limit reached for a territory. Resolution: Check the Territory users limit.Note that manager is also considered as a user. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The user you are trying to associate is an inactive user. Invalid user id Deleted user Resolution: Refer to the "details" key in the response for the API name of the field that has the error in the input. Sample Response Copied { "users": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "431581000000258001" }, "message": "Given User added to the mentioned territory Successfully", "status": "success" } ] }

---

## Add Territory - API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/add-territories.html`

Add Territory - API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Add Territories Purpose To add new territories to your Zoho CRM organization. Endpoints POST /settings/territories Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.territories.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to territories CREATE - To create territories Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/territories" -X POST -d "@addterritories.json" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" In the request, "@addterritories.json" contains the sample input data. Input JSON name string, mandatory Represents the name of the territory. reporting_to JSON Object, mandatory Represents the ID of the parent territory. This can be obtained from GET Territories API manager JSON Object, optional Represents the manager details of the territory. You can give ID of the manager of the territory. Use the Get Users API to get the ID of the user you want to set as manager of the territory. permission_type string, mandatory Represents the type of permission for the territory. Valid values are read_only and read_write_delete. description string, optional Represents the description of the territory. account_rule_criteria JSON Object, optional Represents the criteria for Account module territory rules. comparator string, optional Represents the comparison operator for the account rule criteria (For example, greater_than, less_than). field JSON Object, optional Represents the field details for the account rule criteria. api_name string, optional Represents the API name of the field for the account rule criteria. id string, optional Represents the unique ID of the field for the account rule criteria. This can be obtained from Field Metadata API . value string, optional Represents the value to compare with for the account rule criteria. lead_rule_criteria JSON Object, optional Represents the criteria for lead rules in the territory. comparator string, optional Represents the comparison operator for the lead rule criteria (For example, greater_than, less_than). field JSON Object, optional Represents the field details for the lead rule criteria. api_name string, optional Represents the API name of the field for the lead rule criteria. id string, optional Represents the unique ID of the field for the lead rule criteria. This can be obtained from Field Metadata API value string, optional Represents the value to compare with for the lead rule criteria. deal_rule_criteria JSON Object, optional Represents the criteria for deal rules in the territory. comparator string, optional Represents the comparison operator for the deal rule criteria (e.g., greater_than, less_than). field JSON Object, optional Represents the field details for the deal rule criteria. api_name string, optional Represents the API name of the field for the deal rule criteria. id string, optional Represents the unique ID of the field for the deal rule criteria. This can be obtained from Field Metadata API value string, optional Represents the value to compare with for the deal rule criteria. Note The following section describe field types and their allowed comparators Text, Picklist, Lookup equal, not_equal, contains, not_contains, starts_with, ends_with Date literals supported and their comparators Date literal TODAY TOMORROW TOMORROWPLUS(Starting tomorrow) YESTERDAY AGEINDAYS AGEINDAYS EMPTY Comparator equal Date literal YESTERDAYMINUS(Till yesterday) Comparator less_equal Date literal NOTEMPTY Comparator not_equal Date literal LASTMONTH THISMONTH NEXTMONTH LASTWEEK THISWEEK LASTYEAR THISYEAR NEXTYEAR PREVFQ (FQ - Financial Quarter) THISFQ NEXTFQ PREVFY (FY - Financial Year)THISFY NEXTFY Comparator between Maximum number of rules supported in each criteria are 25 Maximum number of territories that can be created in your organization depends upon the version of CRM Maximum number of territories that can be added in one API call is 10 Sample Input Copied { "territories": [ { "name": "Territory1000", "reporting_to": { "id": "431581000000272796" }, "manager": { "id": "431581000000258001" }, "permission_type": "read_only", "description": null, "account_rule_criteria": { "comparator": "greater_than", "field": { "api_name": "Annual_Revenue", "id": "431581000000000625" }, "value": "1001" }, "lead_rule_criteria": { "comparator": "greater_than", "field": { "api_name": "Annual_Revenue", "id": "431581000000000893" }, "value": "1000" }, "deal_rule_criteria": { "comparator": "greater_than", "field": { "api_name": "Amount", "id": "431581000000000799" }, "value": "100000" } }, { "name": "Territory1001", "reporting_to": { "id": "431581000000272796" }, "manager": { "id": "431581000000258001" }, "permission_type": "read_only", "account_rule_criteria": { "comparator": "greater_than", "field": { "api_name": "Annual_Revenue", "id": "431581000

---

## Get Contact Roles API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-contact-roles.html`

Get Contact Roles API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get Contact Roles When multiple contacts are associated with a deal/opportunity, the contacts' details are stored in the Contact Roles related list. Purpose To get the list of contact roles. Endpoints GET /Contacts/roles Copy full URL GET /Contacts/roles/{contact_role_ID} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/Contacts/roles To get a specific contact role: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/Contacts/roles/{contact_role_ID} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.modules.contacts.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to contacts READ - Read contacts Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Contacts/roles" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Response JSON keys sequence_number integer Represents the position of the contact role in the picklist in the CRM UI. name string Represents the name of the contact role. id string Represents the unique ID of the contact role. Possible Errors INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The request method is incorrect. Resolution: Use the HTTP GET method to make this API call. Any other request method will result in this error. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 You do not have sufficient permission to add subform or module records. Resolution: Contact your system administrator. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 The access token you have used to make this API call does not have the required scope. Resolution: Generate a new access token with the scope mentioned in the Scopes section. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 Permission denied to read records Resolution: The user does not have permission to read records. Contact your system administrator. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 The request URL is incorrect. Resolution: Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the Request URL section for the right URL. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Unexpected and unhandled exception in the server. Resolution: Contact the support team at support@zohocrm.com. Sample Response Copied { "contact_roles": [ { "sequence_number": 1, "name": "Purchasing", "id": "4150868000000006875" }, { "sequence_number": 2, "name": "Engineering Lead", "id": "4150868000000006879" }, { "sequence_number": 3, "name": "Economic Decision Maker", "id": "4150868000000006881" }, { "sequence_number": 4, "name": "Product Management", "id": "4150868000000006883" } ] }

---

## Assignment Rules | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-assignment-rules.html`

Assignment Rules | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get Assignment Rules Purpose To fetch the assignment rules in your org. Endpoints GET /settings/automation/assignment_rules Copy full URL GET /settings/automation/assignment_rules/{rule_id} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL All - {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/automation/assignment_rules Specific - {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/automation/assignment_rules/{rule_id} Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Tasks, Cases, and Custom Header Authorization : Zoho-oauthtoken <access_token> Scope scope=ZohoCRM.settings.assignment_rules.{{operation-type}} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to data READ - Get data from the module Parameters module string, mandatory (mandatory when you fetch a specific assignment rule) The API name of the module you want to fetch the assignment rule from. Supported modules are Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Deals, and Custom. Possible Errors INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The request method specified is invalid. Resolution: Specify the request method as GET. REQUIRED_PARAM_MISSING HTTP 400 One of the expected parameter is missing Resolution: Include the module parameter in the request when you fetch a specific assignment rule. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 The token does not have the scope ZohoCRM.settings.ALL. Resolution: Create a token with the scope ZohoCRM.settings.ALL. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 You do not have the permission to read the assignment rules. Resolution: Contact your administrator. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 The request URL has syntactical errors. Resolution: Correct the syntactical errors in the request URL. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/automation/assignment_rules" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Sample Response Copied { "assignment_rules": [ { "created_time": "2020-04-12T00:00:00+05:30", "modified_time": "2021-02-26T12:45:14+05:30", "default_assignee": { "name": "Patricia Boyle", "id": "3652397000000186017" }, "module": { "api_name": "Leads", "id": "3652397000000002175" }, "name": "Lead Assignment Rule", "modified_by": { "name": "Patricia Boyle", "id": "3652397000000186017" }, "description": "Assign the Leads to the Owners based on these criteria.", "id": "3652397000002045001", "created_by": { "name": "Patricia Boyle", "id": "3652397000000186017" } } ] }

---

## Localized customer segmentation | Territory management software
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/sales-force-automation/territory-management.html?source_from=crm_feature`

Localized customer segmentation | Territory management software Sales Force Automation Territory Management Strategy tailored to territories With our robust territory management software, align your sales with geographies for enhanced focus. Group geographies to achieve cohesion, empower every region, and enable every sale. Sign up for free When the "where" matters Ground your goals in geography. Align targets via a hierarchy organized by region, team, or individual. See progress clearly and track performance. Hit goals by levying a granular focus on location-specific data. Deals, mapped, and measured Every closed deal in a singular, unified view. Clean, organized, and fluid - so that you never miss an opportunity. Insights minimized to specific regions for maximum impact. Territories that sort themselves Automation - the key to accelerated aspiration. Use automation to handle the heavy lifting. Assign accounts to territories and make sure the right people are all aligned from the start. Decisions within reach Even if your business operates all over the world, you have insights at your fingertips. With intuitive reports, explore performance and spot patterns across territories in real time.

---

