# PART 4 METADATA APIs

*Auto-compiled from Zoho CRM official docs | 8 pages*

---

## Module Metadata - API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/module-meta.html`

Module Metadata - API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Metadata APIs The Module Metadata API retrieves metadata for a specific module , including: Fields (all available fields in the module) Layouts Related lists Module Metadata Purpose To fetch metadata for a module, specify its API name (e.g., Leads, Accounts, Deals) in the request. Use the GET - Modules API to retrieve the available module API names. Endpoints GET /settings/modules/{module_API_name} Copy full URL {module_API_name} : API name of the module whose metadata you want to retrieve. Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/modules/{module_api_name} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.ALL or ZohoCRM.settings.modules.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full data access READ - Get module data Note Refer to the key api_name in the JSON data while accessing the resource. Every module, field, and related lists will have an API name, which you can use in the third-party integrations. For example, if you want to access the Leads module, use “Leads" which is the api_name every time you access the resource. The Zoho CRM generates an API name internally while creating a custom module, custom field, or related list label. Please note that you cannot alter the API Names for the default modules, fields, and related lists. You can change the API names only for custom modules, fields, and related lists. The generated API name can contain only alphabets, numbers, and underscores. The API name should start with an alphabet and should not have two consecutive underscores or end with an underscore. The response contains only those modules that the user's profile has permission to view. New modules are added when a new file upload / image upload fields are added to a module. Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/modules/Leads" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/modules/Leads" type: GET connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; Response JSON global_search_supported Boolean Represents if the current module has global search support. Possible values: true: The current module has global search support. false: The current module does not have global search support. deletable Boolean Describes if the user can delete a record in the current module. Possible values: true: The user can delete a record in the current module. false: The user cannot delete a record in the current module. description string Represents the description of the module, if any. creatable Boolean Represents if the user can create records in the current module. Possible values: true: The user can create records in the current module. false: The user cannot create records in the current module. inventory_template_supported Boolean Represents the module supports inventory template. The value will be true only for Quotes, Invoices, Purchase Orders, and Sales Orders modules. Possible values: true: The current module supports inventory template. false: The current module does not support inventory template. modified_time date and time in ISO8601 format Represents the date and time of when the module properties were last modified. plural_label string Represents the plural form of the module name. For example: Leads. singular_label string Represents the singular form of the module name. For example: Lead. has_more_profiles Boolean Represents whether more profiles have access to the module. By default, the Module Metadata API lists up to 50 profiles in the "profiles" key. If there are more than 50 profiles, this value will be true; if there are 50 or fewer, it will be false. access_type string Specifies the module's access type. Possible values: org_based - Default setting, allowing access at an organizational level. team_based - Access is restricted to team-level permissions (if the Team Space feature is enabled). private_profile JSON array Represents the profiles available in the Teams module you have created. recycle_bin_on_delete Boolean Represents whether records in the module can be moved to the recycle bin upon deletion. web_link string This key is related to web tabs, which are treated as modules. Web tabs can be created from either of the two sources: Links or Widgets. The value of this key will be the URL of the web tab (in the case of Links) or the widget's URL (in the case of Widgets). presence_sub_menu Boolean Represents if the module has a submenu. For instance, Tasks in Calls module is a submenu. Possible values: true: The current module has a submenu. false: The current module does not have a submenu. triggers_supported Boolean Represents if the module supports triggers from custom buttons, workflows, approval etc. Possible values: true: The current module supports triggers. For instance, Contacts, Accounts,and so on. false: The current mod

---

## Field Meta Data API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/field-meta.html`

Field Meta Data API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Fields Meta Data Purpose To get the field metadata for the specified module including standard module, custom module, subform module, and linking module in you Zoho CRM account. The fields displayed are from all layouts for the module. The response does not contain layout-specific fields like mandatory fields or picklist values. Endpoints GET /settings/fields?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL GET /settings/fields/{field_unique_ID}?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL {module_API_name} : API name of the module whose fields metadata you want to retrieve. {field_unique_ID} : The unique ID of the field you want to fetch. Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/fields Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.fields.READ (or) ZohoCRM.settings.fields.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.settings.ALL Parameters module string, mandatory This parameter specifies the API name of the module for which you want to retrieve field metadata. Use the GET - Modules Metadata API to retrieve all available module API names. Supported modules: Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Events, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Custom, Appointments, and Service. type string, optional Represents whether to fetch only unused fields or both used and unused fields in the module. By default, the system fetches all the used fields. Possibe values: all : Fetches both used and unused fields in the module. unused : Fetches all the unused fields in the module. include string, optional It specifies whether to include the allowed_permissions JSON object in the response. Possible value: allowed_permissions_to_update : It represents the details on details on default permissions enabled for a field. It returns the allowed_permissions JSON object in the response. Note: If this parameter is not included in the request, the allowed_permissions object will be skipped from the response. Note Use the api_name of the fields in all API inputs instead of field labels. This ensures that the label name changes in custom modules or fields won't affect your existing integrations. Fields with Don't Show permissions will still be included in the API response. The "full_name" field contains the concatenated values of the First Name and Last Name fields. This is a read-only field available only in the Leads, Contacts, and Users modules. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/fields?module=Leads" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Response JSON associated_module JSON object Represents the module of the fields associated with the parent modules. module(string) - Represents the module created for the subform or image upload or file upload fields. id(string) - Represents the unique ID of the module. operation_type JSON object Represents the possible source of data for the field. Possible values: web_update(Boolean) : Represents whether the field can be updated through web. api_create(Boolean) : Represents whether the field can be created through api. web_created(Boolean) : Represents whether the field can be created through web. api_update(Boolean) : Represents whether the field can be updated through api. system_mandatory Boolean Represents if current field is a system-mandatory field. Possible values: true : The field is a system-mandatory field. false : The field is not a system-mandatory field. private JSON object Represents the details of compliance settings in your organization. Example: "private": { "restricted": true, "type": "Low", "export": true } restricted(Boolean) : Represents if normal or sensitive data has restricted access when accessed via API . export(Boolean) : Represents if normal or sensitive data has restricted access when exported . type(string) : Specifies the restriction level based on field configuration in the layout Possible values: Low and High . webhook Boolean Represents if the field is supported in webhook. virtual_field Boolean Virtual fields are reference-only fields that contain metadata but do not hold actual values. It is used for subforms , multi-select lookups , multi-user lookups , and system-generated fields like Full_Name json_type string Represents the JSON type of the field. For example, JSON object, string, etc,. textarea JSON object Contains the details of the multiline field. type string Represents the type of multiline field. Possible values : small supports up to 2000 characters . large supports up to 32000 characters . rich_text supports up to 50000 characters . crypt JSON object Represents the status of the encryption. Example: "crypt": { "mode": "encryption", "status": 1 } The possible values for the "mode" key are: encryption and decryption. The possible values for the "status" key are: 1 - Represents that the field is encrypted. 2- Represents that the en

---

## Custom Views Metadata - APIs | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/custom-view-meta.html`

Custom Views Metadata - APIs | Zoho CRM API | V8 Custom Views Metadata Purpose To get the metadata of custom views of a particular module in Zoho CRM. Endpoints GET /settings/custom_views?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL GET /settings/custom_views/{custom_view_ID}?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To get metadata of all custom views of a module: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/custom_views?module={module_API_name} To get metadata of a specific custom view of a module: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/custom_views/{custom_view_ID}?module={module_API_name} Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Events, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Services, Tasks, Calls, Meetings, and custom modules Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.custom_views.READ (or) ZohoCRM.settings.custom_views.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.settings.ALL Parameters module string, mandatory Specify the API name of the required module. For example, Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Deals, and so on. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/custom_views?module=Leads" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Response JSON display_value string Represents the display name of the current custom view. created_time string Represents the date and time in the ISO8601 format at which the custom view was created. default Boolean Represents if the current custom view is the default one. Possible values: true: The current custom view is the default one. false: The current custom view is not the default one. modified_time string Represents the date and time at which the custom view was modified. The value of this key will be null when custom view was not modified. system_name string Represents the system reference name of the current custom view. system_defined Boolean Represents if the current custom view is a system-defined view. true: The current custom view is system-defined. false: The current custom view is not system-defined. name string Represents the name of the current custom view. modified_by JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user that modified the custom view. The value of this key will be null when custom view was not modified. id string Represents the unique ID of the current custom view. category string Represents the category of the current custom view. The value can be: public_views, other_users_views, shared_with_me, or created_by_me. last_accessed_time string Represents the date and time at which the custom view was last accessed. The value of this key will be null until the custom view is accessed. locked Boolean Represents if the current custom view is locked for editing. When a custom view is locked, only Admins and creators can modify it. favorite integer Represents the ranking of user preferences for favorite custom views within the module. If no custom views are marked as favorites, this will be set to null. created_by JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user that created the custom view. The value of this key will be null for a system-defined custom view. info JSON object The info JSON object contains the following details. per_page : Represents the maximum number of records that can be fetched in an API call. default : Represents the ID of the default custom view. count : Represents the total number of custom views records in that module. page : Represents the page number. more_records : Represents if there are more records to be fetched. Possible Errors REQUIRED_PARAM_MISSING HTTP 400 Bad Request Resolution: You have not specified the mandatory parameter. Refer to parameters section above. INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The module name given seems to be invalid Resolution: You have specified an invalid module name or there is no tab permission, or the module could have been removed from the available modules. Specify a valid module API name. INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The given module is not supported in API Resolution: The modules such as Documents and Projects are not supported in the current API. (This error will not be shown, once these modules are been supported). Specify a valid module API name. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to endpoints section above. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 User does not have sufficient privilege to read custom views data Resolution: The user does not have the permission to retrieve custom views data. Contact your system administrator. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 The access token you have used to make this API call does not have the required scope. Resolution: Generate a new access token with the required scopes for this API. Refer to the Scope section at the be

---

## Create Related Lists using DRE
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/help/customization/related-lists.html`

Create Related Lists using DRE Adding Custom Related List How Can I... Add Custom Related Lists Use Custom Apps as Related Lists Third Party API as Related List Use From Gallery Create Custom Functions Edit Custom Related Lists Hide Custom Related Lists Delete Custom Related Lists Each record in Zoho CRM has the option to associate other records to it. For example, a Contact has notes, activities, potentials, products, attachments, etc. associated to it. These are called Related Lists and are provided by default but you can also have custom related list added to a record. Custom Related Lists helps you view data collected from other sources. Availability Permission Required : Users with the Administrator profile can configure this feature. Adding a Related List You can pull data from various sources to create related list with two options: Zoho Creator's Custom Apps - Add records from Zoho Creator Apps as Related Lists. Third-party APIs - Add Third-party API as Related Lists. You can either choose from pre-defined functions from the gallery or create your own functions. Note: You can add custom related lists in the following modules: Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Potentials, Campaigns, Products, Vendors. When you initially click the Add Now button, you will be asked to specify a Username if you do not have an account in other Zoho services. Enterprise edition users can create a maximum of 5 custom related lists. Use Custom Applications as Related List You can extend your CRM platform with Zoho Creator custom applications . The forms and views can be used as custom tabs inside Zoho CRM. If you have the Zoho Creator Integration activated in your Zoho CRM organizational account, you can view the records of a Custom App's view using custom related list in your CRM modules. To use custom app to create a related list Click a Module (tab) and select a record. In the Record Details page, click Add Related List . In the Add Related List popup box, click Custom Apps . All the Zoho Creator custom apps that are shared to your account will be listed. From the list of custom apps, click Add Now for the corresponding app that you want to use. In the Add Related List page, do the following? Specify a name for the Related List . Choose a Form from the drop-down list. Based on the form that you choose, the associated views will be available. Choose a View from the drop-down list. The selected View will be used as the related list for the module. Specify a criteria for Fetch records for the related list only if [Zoho CRM field value] matches with [Custom Form field value] . Select the check box of the fields that you want to view in the related list. Click Save . The custom related list will be added. Third-Party API as Related Lists Using API's, you can add third party services as related lists into Zoho CRM modules. You can either use the pre-defined third-party custom functions from the Gallery or create a custom function for the third-party service you wish to add in the Related List. You need to call the API provided by the third-party vendor, and parse the response. The response has to be formatted to suit Zoho CRM. The sample code below explains that. <record> <row no="0"> <FL val="Name1">value1</FL> <FL val="Name2">value2</FL> <FL val="Name3">value3</FL> <FL val="Name4">value4</FL> <FL val="Name5">value5</FL> </row> <row no="1"> <FL val="Name1">value1</FL> <FL val="Name2">value2</FL> <FL val="Name3">value3</FL> <FL val="Name4">value4</FL> <FL val="Name5">value5</FL> </row> </record> With the above code, the records will not be a hyperlink. If you need to create hyperlinks for the entries, add 2 attributes ( url and link) in the <FL> tag. Following is a sample snippet. In this example, when you click on the Account Name, the web page (www.zillum.com) will open in a new tab. <FL val="Account Name" link="true" url="http://zillum.com">Zillium</FL> List of Predefined Gallery Functions Zoho CRM provides the following third-party contextual integrations: Zoho Recruit Contactology Saasu FreshBooks Zoho People Use Functions From Gallery Zoho CRM offers some pre-defined functions that are ready to use. Browse through the gallery and select a function that suits your requirement. The selected function will be added to your list of custom functions. You can then use this function as a related list anytime. To select a function from the gallery, Click on a Module (tab) and select a Record. In the Record Details page, click Add Related List . In the Add Related List popup, click Custom Functions > Choose from Gallery . The pre-defined functions will be listed for you to choose. Click Install button of the function you want to use. The function will be added to the list of Custom Functions. In the Add Related List web page, specify the following: Specify a name for the Related List . Specify the Argument. Click on the Add Argument link to specify more. Save the changes. Create Custom Functions In addition to the pre-defined functions f

---

## Layouts Meta Data API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/layouts-meta.html`

Layouts Meta Data API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Layouts Metadata Purpose To retrieve details of all layouts or a specific layout associated with a particular module in your Zoho CRM account. Endpoints GET /settings/layouts?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL GET /settings/layouts/{layout_ID}?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL {module_api_name} : API name of the module whose layouts you want to retrieve. {layout_ID} : The unique ID of a specific layout you want to fetch. Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/layouts Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Events, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Custom, Appointments, and Services. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.layouts.READ (or) ZohoCRM.settings.layouts.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.settings.ALL Parameters module string, mandatory Specify the API name of the required module. Use the GET - Modules Metadata API to retrieve all available module API names. For example, Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Deals, and so on. Note In the Deals module, the "forecast_category" key is changed from string to a JSON Object. In the Events module, a new data type "multireminder" is introduced for the "Remind_At" key. When the pipeline feature is enabled, a new field "Pipeline" is added in the response. The pick_list_values for a pipeline inside the maps key represent the stages that are available in the pipeline. When you have created a wizard in the module, the "fields" array will have an object for wizard. The "fields" array will also contain an object each for image upload, multi-select lookup, and multi-select user lookup fields with the data types imageupload, multiselectlookup, and mutliuserlookup, respectively. The sections related to Score Summary and Visit Summary will be rendered in the response only when you enable these features. For the Users module, Timezone offset varies based on daylight settings. So, the picklist field's display_value will change accordingly. In the Country_Locale field, the picklist values are translated if translation is enabled . Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/layouts?module=Leads" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/layouts?module=Leads" type: GET connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; Response JSON created_time string Represents the date and time at which the current layout was created. convert_mapping JSON object Represents the base layout details used for converting records from one module to another. modified_time string Represents the date and time at which the layout was last modified. visible Boolean Represents if the current layout is visible to the user. true: The current layout is visible to the user. false: The current layout is not visible to the user. name string Represents the name of the layout. modified_by JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user who last modified the layout. profiles JSON array Each object in the array represents the name and ID of the profile that has access to the current layout. The value of this key will be null when the user does not have the Module Customization permission. _default_view JSON object This key is enabled when a wizard layout is set as the default layout in the create view of a module. It contains the ID and name of the default layout for each profile. _default_assignment_view JSON object This key is enabled when a canvas layout is set as the default layout in the detail view of a module i.e., when viewing a record in a module. The Standard layout is the default layout view. id string Represents the unique ID of the layout. created_by JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user who created the layout. api_name JSON array Represent the API name of the layout. sections JSON array Each object in the array represents the details of sections in the current layout. display_label string Represents the display name of the section. mode string Represents the section's mode in the layout. Possible values : All modules except : default_create : The section is used in the default create mode. quick_create : The section is used in the quick create mode. business_card : The section is used in the business card mode. Events module : create : The section is used in the create mode. view : The section is used in the view mode. quick_view : The section is used in the quick view mode. Subforms : create : The section is used in the create mode. view : The section is used in the view mode. Wizards : create : The section is used in the create mode. sequence_number integer Represents the position of the section in the layout. isSubformSection Boolean Represents if the section is the subform section. Possible values : true: The current s

---

## Related List Meta Data API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/related-list-meta.html`

Related List Meta Data API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Related Lists Metadata Purpose To get the metadata of the related lists in a particular module in your Zoho CRM account. Endpoints GET /settings/related_lists?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/related_lists Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Events, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Services and Custom modules. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.related_lists.READ (or) ZohoCRM.settings.related_lists.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.settings.ALL Parameters module string, mandatory Specify the API name of the required module. For example, Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Deals, and so on. Refer to the Supported modules section at the beginning of this page. layout_id string, optional Specify the unique ID of the layout to fetch the metadata of the related lists specific to that layout. If you do not include this parameter, the metadata of the related lists is fetched from the Standard layout. Note The "href" attribute in the response must be used in the URL to call the related list API. For example, the URL for calling the related list API must be: https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/{ENTITYID}/Entity_Scores__s. Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/related_lists?module=Leads" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/related_lists?module=Leads" type: GET connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; Response JSON sequence_number integer Represents the position of the related list in the module, in CRM. display_label string Represents the display name of the related list. customize_sort Boolean Represents if the records in the related list can be sorted. customize_fields Boolean Represents if the fields of the related list can be customized. customize_display_label Boolean Represents if the display label of the related list can be customized. api_name string Represents the API name of the related list. module JSON object Represents the API name and ID of the module which the related list belongs to. name string Represents the display name of the module to which the related list belongs to. id string Represents the unique ID of the related list. href string Represents the URL reference to access the current related list. type string Represents the type of the current related list. The value can be either default or multiselectlookup. connectedmodule string If the related list is a multi-select lookup, the key represents the API name of the related module. linkingmodule string Represents the API name of the linking module. parent_related_lists string Represents the details of modules configured for Chronological_View and Chronological_View_History related lists fields string Represents the details of fields configured for Chronological_View and Chronological_View_History related lists status string Represents whether the related list is visible or hidden in the module. Possible values : visible user_hidden scheduled_for_deletion Sample Response Copied { "related_lists": [ { "module": { "api_name": "Entity_Cadences__s", "id": "2276164000000833075" }, "type": "default", "sequence_number": "1", "display_label": "Cadences", "customize_sort": true, "customize_fields": true, "api_name": "Entity_Cadences_leads", "customize_display_label": false, "name": "Cadences", "action": null, "href": "Leads/{ENTITYID}/Entity_Cadences_leads", "id": "2276164000000833156", "status": "visible" }, { "module": { "api_name": "Notes", "id": "2276164000000000147" }, "type": "default", "sequence_number": "1", "display_label": "Notes", "customize_sort": true, "customize_fields": true, "api_name": "Notes", "customize_display_label": false, "name": "Notes", "action": null, "href": "Leads/{ENTITYID}/Notes", "id": "2276164000000002730", "status": "visible" }, { "module": { "api_name": "Attachments", "id": "2276164000000000177" }, "type": "default", "sequence_number": "2", "display_label": "Attachments", "customize_sort": true, "customize_fields": false, "api_name": "Attachments", "customize_display_label": false, "name": "Attachments", "action": null, "href": "Leads/{ENTITYID}/Attachments", "id": "2276164000000002724", "status": "visible" }, { "module": { "api_name": "Products", "id": "2276164000000000163" }, "type": "default", "sequence_number": "3", "display_label": "Products", "customize_sort": true, "customize_fields": true, "api_name": "Products", "customize_display_label": false, "name": "Products", "action": null, "href": "Leads/{ENTITYID}/Products", "id": "2276164000000002726", "status": "visible" }, { "module": null, "parent_related_lists": null, "type": "grouped", "sequence_number": "4", "display_la

---

## Get Pipelines in a Layout | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-pipelines.html`

Get Pipelines in a Layout | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get Pipelines in a Layout Purpose To fetch the details of all or a specific pipeline in the Deals module. Request Details Request URL All - {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/pipeline?layout_id={layout_id} Specific - {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/pipeline/{pipeline_ID}?layout_id={layout_id} Header Authorization : Zoho-oauthtoken <access_token> Scope scope=ZohoCRM.settings.pipeline.READ Endpoints GET /settings/pipeline?layout_id={layout_ID} Copy full URL GET /settings/pipeline/{pipeline_ID}?layout_id={layout_ID} Copy full URL Parameters layout_id string, mandatory The unique ID of the layout in the Deals module you want to fetch the pipeline's details from. Note that this parameter is mandatory for fetching all pipelines and a specific pipeline. The system throws an error, otherwise. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/pipeline?layout_id=3652397000000091023" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Possible Errors INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The layout ID is invalid. Resolution: Specify the correct layout ID. Use the Layouts Metadata API to get the ID of the layout. REQUIRED_PARAM_MISSING HTTP 400 You have not included the mandatory parameter "layout_id" in your request. Resolution: "layout_id" is a mandatory parameter while fetching all or a specific pipeline from the Deals module. NO_CONTENT HTTP 204 You have either passed an incorrect value for the pipeline ID in the request, or you have not created a pipeline in that layout. Resolution: Specify the correct pipeline ID in the request. Sample Response Copied { "pipeline": [ { "display_value": "Standard (Standard)", "default": true, "maps": [ { "display_value": "Qualification", "sequence_number": 1, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" }, "actual_value": "Qualification", "id": "3652397000000006801", "forecast_type": "Open" }, { "display_value": "Needs Analysis", "sequence_number": 2, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" }, "actual_value": "Needs Analysis", "id": "3652397000000006803", "forecast_type": "Open" }, { "display_value": "Value Proposition", "sequence_number": 3, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" }, "actual_value": "Value Proposition", "id": "3652397000000006805", "forecast_type": "Open" }, { "display_value": "Identify Decision Makers", "sequence_number": 4, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" }, "actual_value": "Id. Decision Makers", "id": "3652397000000006807", "forecast_type": "Open" }, { "display_value": "Proposal/Price Quote", "sequence_number": 5, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" }, "actual_value": "Proposal/Price Quote", "id": "3652397000000006811", "forecast_type": "Open" }, { "display_value": "Negotiation/Review", "sequence_number": 6, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" }, "actual_value": "Negotiation/Review", "id": "3652397000000006813", "forecast_type": "Open" }, { "display_value": "Closed Won", "sequence_number": 7, "forecast_category": { "name": "Closed", "id": "3652397000000006789" }, "actual_value": "Closed Won", "id": "3652397000000006815", "forecast_type": "Closed Won" }, { "display_value": "Closed Lost", "sequence_number": 8, "forecast_category": { "name": "Omitted", "id": "3652397000000006791" }, "actual_value": "Closed Lost", "id": "3652397000000006817", "forecast_type": "Closed Lost" }, { "display_value": "Closed-Lost to Competition", "sequence_number": 9, "forecast_category": { "name": "Omitted", "id": "3652397000000006791" }, "actual_value": "Closed Lost to Competition", "id": "3652397000000006819", "forecast_type": "Closed Lost" } ], "actual_value": "Standard (Standard)", "id": "3652397000003097001" }, { "display_value": "Pipeline1", "default": false, "maps": [ { "display_value": "Qualification", "sequence_number": 1, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" }, "actual_value": "Qualification", "id": "3652397000000006801", "forecast_type": "Open" }, { "display_value": "Needs Analysis", "sequence_number": 2, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" }, "actual_value": "Needs Analysis", "id": "3652397000000006803", "forecast_type": "Open" }, { "display_value": "Value Proposition", "sequence_number": 3, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" }, "actual_value": "Value Proposition", "id": "3652397000000006805", "forecast_type": "Open" }, { "display_value": "Proposal/Price Quote", "sequence_number": 4, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" }, "actual_value": "Proposal/Price Quote", "id": "3652397000000006811", "forecast_type": "Open" }, { "display_value": "Negotiation/Review", "sequence_number": 5, "forecast_category": { "name": "Pipeline", "id": "3652397000000006787" },

---

## Update Custom Layout - APIs | Online Help - Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/update-custom-layout.html`

Update Custom Layout - APIs | Online Help - Zoho CRM Update Custom Layout Purpose To update a custom layout in a module in your Zoho CRM account. Endpoints PATCH /settings/layouts/{layout_ID}?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/layouts/{layout_id} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.layouts.UPDATE (or) ZohoCRM.settings.layouts.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.settings.ALL Parameters module string, mandatory Specify the module API name where you want to update the custom a layout. Use the GET Module Metadata API to get the module API names. Supported modules are Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Deals, Products, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase, Orders, Invoices, Campaigns, Vendors, Price Books, Cases, Solutions, and Custom. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/layouts/5725767000002277002?module=Leads" -X PATCH -d "@input.json" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Request JSON section JSON array, optional Each object in the array represents the details of sections in the current layout. id string, optional (mandatory to update en existing section) Represents the unique ID of the section. Use the GET Layouts Metadata API , to retrieve unique section IDs. display_label string, mandatory (mandatory for section creation) Represents the display label of the section. A maximum of 50 characters, including spaces, is allowed. Note that the value of this field should not be empty, and only letters, numbers, and spaces are supported. fields JSON array, optional You can create custom fields under sections in a layout. Refer to the Create Custom Field API and follow the same structure to create fields for each data type. field_label string, optional Represents the label of the field. data_type string, optional(The "datatype" or "id" is mandatory for updating a field) Represents the datatype of the field. id string, optional (The "datatype" or "id" is mandatory for updating a field) Represents the unique ID of the field. _delete JSON object, optional This key lets you to move fields from the current layout to Unused Items. permanent boolean, mandatory Represents whether the fields should be temporarily moved to Unused Items . Possible Value : false. required boolean, optional Specify whether a field should be mandatory or not. Note that you can only mark a field as mandatory using the Layouts API. Note A maximum of five actions (create, update, or delete) can be performed on fields within the specified sections of a layout in a single API call . Maximum of five sections can be created in a single API call. The data types email and textarea do not support external fields. In the tooltip key, the static_text value is limited to 35 characters , and the info_icon value is limited to 255 characters . You can create a maximum of two unique fields per module in all editions. You can create a maximum of one auto-number field in a module. For more details about fields creation, see Create Custom Field API help document. The unique key is not allowed for the imageupload data type. The API name of a layout cannot be changed. You cannot add more than 220 options for the Stage picklist field in the Deals module. All the field types and their possible error cases, as explained in the Create Custom Field API and Update Custom Field API help documents, are applicable for creating and updating fields in a layout. This API allows you to selectively retain certain pick list options while moving others to the unused section. Suppose you have a pick list field with values option A , option B , and option C . You can use the API to persist option A while moving option B and option C to the unused category. Refer to the sample input section: Sample input to mark picklist options as unused . Use the GET - Layouts Metadata API to retrieve the required layout details. Default values can be configured for Picklist (data_type: "picklist") and Multi-select Picklist (data_type: "multiselectpicklist") fields. Refer to sample input section: Sample input to set default value for a picklist field . Sample input for manipulating fields within an existing layout Copied { //Creating, Updating, moving fields to "Unsed Items" in an existing sections in a layout "layouts": [ { "sections": [ { "id": "5725767000002277007", //manipulating fields in an existing layout under an existing section "fields": [ { "field_label": "Subcriber Namee", "data_type": "text" //creating a new field }, { "id": "5725767000002235077", //existing field ID "field_label": "Multiple Notes" //updating an existing field }, { "id": "5725767000002288647", "_delete": { "permanent": false //moving field to the "Unused Items" } }, { "id": "5725767000003613091", "required": true //Marking the field as mandatory. } ] } ] } ] } Sample input to create a "New Section" and to update an existing section Copied { //Actions on creati

---

