# PART 2 RECORDS CRUD

*Auto-compiled from Zoho CRM official docs | 16 pages*

---

## Get Records | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-records.html`

Get Records | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get Records A record is an entity which stores all the combined information of a particular contact or company, which is acquired from various sources. The information may be acquired from a web-form, social media services, advertisements etc. The records API allows the user to get, create, update, delete, or search records. Purpose To get the list of available records from a module, or to get the details of a specific record with its unique record ID. Endpoints GET /{module_api_name} Copy full URL GET /{module_api_name}/{record_id} Copy full URL {module_api_name} : API name of the module whose records you want to retrieve {record_id} : The unique ID of the record you want to fetch. Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name} To get specific record: {api-domain} /crm/{version}/{module_api_name}/{record_id} Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Appointments Rescheduled History, Services and Custom Custom Modules For custom modules, use their respective API names in the request URL. You can obtain the API name from Setup -> Developer Hub -> APIs & SDKs -> API Names . You can also get the module API name from the api_name key in the Modules API 's response. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 If-Modified-Since: 2019-07-25T15:26:49+05:30 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, custom, appointments, appointments_rescheduled_history, services. Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record READ - Get records from the module Parameters fields string, mandatory when fetching all records Specify the API names of the fields you want to retrieve when fetching the records. Note that you can include a maximum of 50 field API names in this parameter. Use the GET - Fields Metadata API to retrieve the list of available fields in a module. Possible values : Multiple field API names, in a comma separated format. For example: Last_Name, Email. Note: The full_name field contains the concatenated values of the First Name and Last Name fields. This is a read-only field available only in the Leads , Contacts , and Users modules. cvid long Specify the custom view ID to get the list of records based on custom views. Note that you cannot use this param with the "sort_by" param. You can get custom view id from the response of Custom View Meta API . Possible values : {custom_view_id}. ids string, optional To retrieve specific records based on their unique ID. Possible values: Valid unique IDs of records. Example: 4150868000001944196 per_page integer Specify how many records to return per page. The default and the maximum possible value is 200 . Possible values : Positive integer values only. page integer To get the list of records from the respective pages. The default value is 1 . Note that you cannot use this param with the "page_token" param. Possible values : Positive integer values only. page_token string, mandatory to fetch more than 2000 records by pagination You can use the "page" param to fetch up to 2000 records without "page_token". To fetch more than 2000 records, you must include the "page_token" param in the request. This param takes the value from the key "next_page_token" in the response of the first Get Records call. Note that this token value is user-specific. If you use another user's token, the system throws an error. Note that you cannot use this param with the "page" param. sort_order string Specifies the order in which records are sorted, based on the field provided in the sort_by parameter. Note The sort_by parameter is mandatory to apply sorting, even when using the default sort_by value. Possible values : desc - Displays records in descending order. This is the default value. asc - Displays records in ascending order. sort_by string To sort the records based on the fields id , Created_Time , and Modified_Time . The default value is 'id'. Note that you cannot use this parameter with the "cvid" parameter. converted string To get the list of converted records. Default value is false . Possible values : false - get only non-converted records. true - get only converted records. both - get all records. territory_id long Specify the territory ID to get the list of records that belongs to a specific territory. You can get the territory IDs using Get Territories API . Possible value : {territory_id}. include_child boolean To include records from the child territories. Default value is false . Possible values : false - do not include child territory records. true - include child territory records. Note "sort_order" applies to given "s

---

## Get Records through COQL Query | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/Get-Records-through-COQL-Query.html`

Get Records through COQL Query | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get Records through a COQL Query Purpose To get the records from the module through a COQL query. Table of Contents Request Details Field Types and their Comparators Text, Picklist Lookup Date, DateTime, Number Boolean Aggregate Function SUM MAX MIN AVG COUNT Multi-module lookup and what_id Support Roles and Profiles support Alias support Samples Sample Query with Two Relations (Joins) Sample Query with User/Owner Lookup Field Sample query with multiple conditions in where clause Querying Multi-module Lookup Module Name Sample Query Using External ID Sample Query to Retrieve Data Using CVID Sample Query to Retrieve Field Metadata for Selected Fields Sample Query to Fetch Data Using Territory Fields Sample Query to Fetch Lookup Fields Consent Lookup Sample Query to Retrieve Data Using a Profile Image ID Sample query to access Subform data Sample query to access Multi-select lookup field (MxN) Sample Query Using the Rollup Summary Field Endpoints POST /coql Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/coql Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.coql.READ (and) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{operation_type} (or) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} Note: Use the ZohoCRM.settings.fields.READ scope to retrieve fields metadata . Without this scope, the system will throw an OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH error. Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, users, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, and custom Possible operation types ALL - Full data access READ - Get module data Note Although you "get" records from the module, the HTTP method is POST as you "post" the query. Refer to Query API - An Overview to learn how to construct a COQL query. When you use a module's API name in the query, prefix an ! to differentiate between a module's and field's API name. For example, !Leads.Owner.role.id . Encrypted numeric fields support = , != , is null and is not null . Encrypted fields are supported in the SELECT column and in the WHERE clause. Encrypted non-numeric fields support only is null and is not null . Tuple is not supported in COQL. The Full_Name field contains the concatenated values of the First_Name and Last_Name fields. This is a read-only field available only in the Leads and Contacts modules. You can include a maximum of five dynamic formula fields in the SELECT column. Formula field: To include a formula field in your query, ensure you use only the supported comparators to retrieve information. The available comparators may vary based on the return type of the formula field. The table below outlines the supported comparator based on the return type: Formula Field's Return type Field Data Type supported comparators Decimal, Date, DateTime, Number =, !=, >=, >, <=, <, between, not between, in, not in, is null, is not null String (text) =, !=, like(used for starts_with, ends_with, contains), not like(used for not_contains), in, not in, is null, is not null Boolean is null, is not null, equals Request JSON select_query JSON key, mandatory Represents that the input is a select query. Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/coql" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@input.json" -X POST Copied queryMap = Map(); queryMap.put("select_query", "select Last_Name, First_Name, Full_Name from Contacts where Last_Name = &#039;Boyle&#039; and First_Name is not null limit 2"); response = invokeurl [ url :"https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/coql" type :POST parameters: queryMap.toString() connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; In the request, "@input.json" contains the sample input data. Field Types and their Comparators The following sections describe the field types and their allowed comparators in the COQL query with an example each. Text, Picklist = , != , like (used for starts_with, ends_with, contains), not like (used for not_contains), in , not in , is null , is not null . Note The % wildcard can be used with the like operator to achieve functionalities similar to the contains, starts_with, and ends_with operators. For instance, '%tech' queries for field values ending with 'tech', 'C%' queries for values starting with 'C', and '%tech%' translates to contains 'tech'. Please note that for the Not Like operator, it only works if you give '%' at both ends (not contains). Using '%' only at the beginning (not starting with) or at the end (not ending with) doesn't work. The valid cases are: like "%tech" - ends with 'tech' like "%tech%" - contains 'tech' like "tech%" - starts with 'tech' not like "%tech%" - does not contain 'tech' Sample Query Copied { "select_query" : "select Last_Name, First_Name, Full_Name, Lead_Source, Languages_Known from Contacts where (((Last_Name = &#039;Boyle&#039;) and (Lead_Source = Adv

---

## Get Related Records | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-related-records.html`

Get Related Records | Zoho CRM API | V8 Related Records Data A record in Zoho CRM can have related data, such as notes , attachments , products , deals , and contacts . Using the Related Records API , you can fetch all related records associated with a specific module record. Get Related Records Purpose To get the related list records. Endpoints GET /{module_api_name}/{record_id}/{related_list_api_name} Copy full URL {module_api_name} : API name of the module from which you want to retrieve related records. For example, Leads , Accounts , Contacts , etc. {record_id} : Unique ID of the record within the specified module. {related_list_api_name} : API name of the related list you want to retrieve. For example, Notes , Attachments , Emails , etc. The href attribute in the related list metadata API 's response provides the exact endpoint for fetching related records. Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name}/{record_id}/{related_list_api_name} Supported relations All modules and their related records are supported. Use the Related List Metadata API to get a list of available related lists for a module. The href attribute in the related list metadata API's response provides the exact endpoint for fetching related records. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 If-Modified-Since: Use this header to get the list of recently modified records. Example: 2019-07-25T15:26:49+05:30 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_API_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, custom, appointments, appointments_rescheduled_history, and services. Possible operation types ALL - Full access to related records READ - Read related records Parameters fields string, mandatory Specify the API name of the field whose details you want to receive in the response. Use the GET - Fields Metadata API to retrieve the list of available fields in a module. page integer, optional To get the list of records from the respective pages. Default value for page is 1 . Possible values: Positive Integer values only. per_page integer, optional To get the list of records available per page. The default and the maximum possible value is 200 . Possible values: Positive Integer values only. page_token string, mandatory to fetch more than 2000 records by pagination You can use the page param to fetch up to 2000 records without page_token . To fetch more than 2000 records, you must include the page_token param in the request. This param takes the value from the key next_page_token in the response of the first Get Related Records call. Note that this token value is user-specific. If you use another user's token, the system throws an error. Note that you cannot use this param with the page param. ids string, optional To retrieve specific records based on their unique ID. Use GET - Records API to retrieve valid record IDs for a module. Possible values: Valid unique IDs of records. Example: 4150868000001944196 sort_order string, optional To sort the available list of records in either ascending or descending order. Possible values : desc (default) - descending order. asc - ascending order sort_by string, optional To sort the records based on the fields id , Created_Time , and Modified_Time . The default value is id . Note that you cannot use this param with the cvid param. converted string, optional To get the list of converted records. Possible values : false (default) - get only non-converted records true - get only converted records both - get all records. Note The page and per_page parameter is used to fetch records according to their position in the CRM. Let us assume that the user has to fetch 400 records. The maximum number of records that one can get for an API call is 200 . So, for records above the 200th position, they cannot be fetched. By using the page (1 and 2) and per_page (200) parameter, the user can fetch all 400 records using 2 API calls. If the requested related list is not present or hidden in a layout, the system will return an INVALID_DATA response. Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/4876876000000376008/Notes?fields=Owner,Parent_Id" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/4876876000000376008/Notes?fields=Owner,Parent_Id" type: GET connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; Response JSON keys Owner JSON object Represents the name, ID, and email of the record owner . Modified_Time string Date and time when the related record was last modified . Created_Time string Date and time when the related record was created . $editable boolean Represents if the user can edit the current related record. Possible values: true: The user can ed

---

## Search Records | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/search-records.html`

Search Records | Zoho CRM API | V8 Search Records Purpose To retrieve records that match your search criteria within a single module. Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name}/search Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} (and) scope=ZohoSearch.securesearch.READ Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, users, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, custom, notes, appointments, appointments_rescheduled_history, and services. Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record READ - Get records from the module Endpoints GET /{module_api_name}/search?criteria={{criteria_here}} Copy full URL GET /{module_api_name}/search?email={{email_here}} Copy full URL GET /{module_api_name}/search?phone={{phone_number_here}} Copy full URL GET /{module_api_name}/search?word={{search_word_here}} Copy full URL {module_api_name} : API name of the module whose records you want to search. Request Details: criteria Request URL: {api-domain}/crm/v8/{module_api_name}/search?criteria={criteria_here} Parameters criteria string Performs search by following the shown criteria. (({api_name}:{operator}:{value})and/or({api_name}:{operator}:{value})) Performs a search based on the following format: (({field_API_name}:{operator}:{value}) and/or ({field_API_name}:{operator}:{value})) Replace {field_API_name}, {operator}, and {value} with the appropriate field API name, condition, and value. You can search for a maximum of 10 criteria (with same or different columns). The only operator that is supported for encrypted fields is equals . When using the equals operator in the Search API, it behaves like contains, retrieving records that include the specified value. For single condition, If the condition is (Company:equals:ABC) , the response will include records with "ABC" as well as "ABC Inc" in the Company field. For multiple conditions , equals still behaves like contains. For example, ((Company:equals:ABC) and (First_Name:starts_with:M)) , it retrieves records where the "First Name" starts with "M" and the "Company" contains "ABC" (e.g., "ABC" or "ABC Inc."). Note: The above behaviour does not apply to the picklist field type. The "in" operator checks if a field's value matches any value in a given list. For example, (Full_Name:in:Patricia,Boyle,Kate) , it retrieves records where the Full Name is Patricia , Boyle , or Kate . When a single-line field value contains characters such as " { ", " } ", " [ ", " ] ", " ^ ", " : ", " - ", " / ", " ! ", " ? ", " * ", " _ ", " @ ", space , the Search API returns records with similar-looking values , even if the characters are not an exact match. For example, if Record A has the field value sales-team@zoho.com and Record B has sales_team@zoho.com , a search using equals:sales-team@zoho.com may return both records . When using parentheses ( () ), commas ( , ), or a backslash ( \ ) as the last character in a search value, follow these steps: Escape special characters using a backslash ( \ ). Encode the value before making the API request. Select the value of the criteria, right-click the value, and choose the EncodeURIComponent option. Example 1 : Escaping Parentheses and Commas Search term: ((Last_Name:equals:Burns,B) and (First_Name:starts_with:M)) Escape the comma ( \, ): ((Last_Name:equals:Burns \, B) and (First_Name:starts_with:M)) Encode the value : ((Last_Name:equals:Burns %5C%2C B) and (First_Name:starts_with:M)) Example 2 : Escaping a Backslash at the End Search term: (Last_Name:equals:K\) Escape the backslash ( \\ ): (Last_Name:equals:K \\ ) Encode the value : (Last_Name:equals:K %5C%5C ) The supported data types are picklist owner_lookup user_lookup lookup phone email date datetime text textarea integer currency decimal multiselectpicklist bigint percent formula website boolean double The supported operators are equals starts_with in not_equal greater_equal greater_than less_equal less_than between Refer to the following "Note" section to learn about the supported operator for each field type. Note The following section gives you the field types and the operators you can use in the criteria parameter Date, DateTime : equals, not_equal, greater_equal, greater_than, less_equal, less_than, between, in. Integer, Currency, Decimal : equals, not_equal, greater_equal, greater_than, less_equal, less_than, between, in. Boolean : equals, not_equal. textarea : equals, not_equal, starts_with. Lookup(user/owner) : equals, not_equal, in. Picklist, Autonumber : equals, not_equal, in. Text, Email, Phone, Website : equals, not_equal, starts_with, in. multiselectpicklist : equals, not_equal, in, starts_with. bigint : equals, not_equal, greater_than, greater_equal, less_than, less_equal, between, in. percent : equals, not_equal, greater_than, greater_equal, less_than, less_equal, between, in. f

---

## Transfer Records and Delete User | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/transfer_records-delete_user.html`

Transfer Records and Delete User | Zoho CRM API | V8 Transfer Records and Delete User Purpose To delete a user from CRM and transfer the records to a new user. You can replace the user at the following places: Ownership : You can transfer all open records of the old user to the new user. Assignment : You can replace the old user with new at places like assignment rules, escalation rules, field updates, automation actions etc. Configuration/criteria : You can replace the user where the old user is used in criteria for custom views, automation, reports etc. When you delete a user through this API, a scheduler schedules a job and returns the job ID in the response. Use the Status API to check the status of the job. Endpoints POST /users/actions/transfer_and_delete Copy full URL POST /users/actions/transfer_and_delete Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/users/actions/transfer_and_delete To delete a specific user: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/users/{user_id}/actions/transfer_and_delete Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.users.ALL (or) scope=ZohoCRM.users.DELETE Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/users/actions/transfer_and_delete" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@input.json" -X POST Input JSON id string, mandatory if not given in the request URL The unique ID of the user that you want to delete and transfer the open records to another user. Use the Get Users API to get the ID of the user. transfer JSON object, mandatory The details of the new user you want to transfer the records of the old user to. id , string, mandatory - The record ID of the user you want to transfer the records of the old user to. Use the Get Users API to get the ID of the user. records , Boolean, mandatory - true indicates that you want to transfer the open records to the new user. assignment , Boolean, mandatory - true indicates that you want to replace the user at places such as assignment rules, escalation rules, field updates, automation actions etc. criteria , Boolean, mandatory - true indicates that you want to replace the user at places where the old user is used in criteria for custom views, automation, reports etc. move_subordinate JSON object, mandatory if "transfer" is not given The details of the new user you want to transfer the subordinates of the old user to. id , string, mandatory - The record ID of the user you want to transfer the subordinates of the old user to. Use the Get Users API to get the ID of the user. Sample Input Copied { "transfer_and_delete": [ { "id": "3652397000001464001", "transfer": { "id": "3652397000000186017", "records": true, "assignment": true, "criteria": true }, "move_subordinate": { "id": "3652397000000186017" } } ] } Possible Errors MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND HTTP 400 You have not included the ID of the user you want to delete. Resolution: You must include the ID of the user that you want to delete either in the request URL or in the input body. Use the Get Users API to get the ID of the user. EXPECTED_FIELD_MISSING HTTP 400 You have neither specified "transfer" nor "move_subordinate" in the input. Resolution: Specify either "transfer" or "move_subordinate" in the input. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 You have specified an incorrect user ID either in the URL or in the body. Resolution: Specify the right user ID. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The user you are trying to delete, or the user you want to transfer the records to is not a CRM user. Resolution: You can only delete a CRM user and transfer the records to a CRM user. Use the Get Users API to get the list of users in your org. Refer to the "details" key in the response. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The user you are trying to delete, or the user you want to transfer the records to is already deleted. Resolution: You cannot delete or transfer records to already deleted users. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The user's ID that you are trying to transfer the records to is invalid. Resolution: Provide a valid user ID. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The user you are trying to transfer the subordinates to is inactive. Resolution: You can move the subordinates only to active users. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 You have specified the user ID in the URL but the request body has more than one JSON object. Resolution: If you specify the user ID in the URL, you can delete only that user, and the request body must contain details of only that user. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 You are trying to delete more than one user through this API. Resolution: You can use this API to delete only one user and transfer records to another user. NOT_ALLOWED HTTP 400 The user you are trying to transfer the subordinates to is a subordinate user. Resolution: You cannot move the subordinates to another subordinate user. NOT_ALLOWED HTTP 400 The user you are trying to delete is the super admin of the org. Resolution: You cannot delete the super admin of the org. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 

---

## Upsert Records | Zoho CRM API |V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/upsert-records.html`

Upsert Records | Zoho CRM API |V8 Insert or Update Records (Upsert) Purpose The Upsert API allows you to insert a new record or update an existing one based on duplicate check field values. How it Works: The system checks for duplicate records using the values of the duplicate check fields . If a matching record exists , it gets updated . If no matching record is found, a new record is inserted . Endpoints POST /{module_api_name}/upsert Copy full URL {module_api_name} : API name of the module where you want to perform upsert operation. Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name}/upsert Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Cases, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Appointments Rescheduled History, Services and Custom Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 If-Unmodified-Since: 2024-01-15T15:26:49+05:30 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_api_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, cases, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, appointments, appointments_rescheduled_history, services and custom. Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record WRITE - Edit records in the module CREATE - Create records in the module Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/upsert" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@upsertlead.json" -X POST Copied { LeadData = Map(); LeadData.put("Last_Name", "Patricia"); LeadData.put("Email", "patricia@zoho.com"); //unique field LeadData.put("Company", "Zoho"); LeadDataList = List(); LeadDataList.add(LeadData); paramsMap = Map(); paramsMap.put("data", LeadDataList); response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/upsert" type: POST parameters: paramsMap.toString() connection: "zohocrm" ]; info response; } In the request, "@upsertlead.json" contains the sample input data. Input JSON $skip_feature_execution JSON array, optional By default, if a Cadence is configured for a module, it will be executed automatically when you perform an upsert action (Insert or Update action) on a record via API. This key lets you skip the execution of the Cadences feature during record upsert. Specify "cadences" as the value for the "name" key to skip Cadences execution for the record. Ensure you include this key alongside the "data" key in your request. name string, mandatory Represents the name of the feature. Possible value: cadences action string, mandatory Indicates the action based on which the feature will be skipped. The system will skip the feature execution based on this action. Supported values: "insert" and "update". For example, if "action": "insert" , the system will bypass the feature execution when the record is inserted via the upsert API. Note When using the Upsert API, the system verifies records for duplicates based on duplicate check fields . There are two types of duplicate check fields : System-Defined Duplicate Check Fields These are predefined unique fields in each module. The system automatically checks these fields to prevent duplicate entries. Refer to the System-Defined Duplicate Check Fields section for module-wise details. User-Defined Unique Fields These are fields where the option "Do not allow duplicate values" is enabled. Users can define custom unique fields to prevent duplicate data. Learn more about enabling Mark a Field as Unique . When a record is upserted, the system first checks for duplicates in these fields. If a matching record exists, it gets updated ; otherwise, a new record is inserted . You can set the order in which the system verifies duplicate records using the duplicate_check_fields array in your API request. Allowed Fields: System-defined duplicate check fields. For example, Email for Leads . User-defined unique fields. For example, Phone and Fax . Example: In the Leads module: "duplicate_check_fields": [ "Email", "Phone", "Fax" ] If you do not specify duplicate_check_fields, the system follows this default order: i. System-defined duplicate check fields ii. User-defined unique fields The 'INVALID_DATA' error is thrown if the field value length is more than the maximum length defined for that field. If an API is used inside a Function and the field value length exceeds the limit, then that function receives an error response from the API. For ex: If the max length for a "Text field" is defined as 10, then value given for it in API cannot be "12345678901", since it has 11 characters. A maximum of 100 records can be inserted/updated per API call . Refer to our Kaizen post: Upsert Records API and Duplicate Check Preferences API vs. Upsert API , for more details with real-time use cases. You must use only Field API names in the input. You can obtain the field API names from F

---

## Update Records | Zoho CRM API |V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/update-records.html`

Update Records | Zoho CRM API |V8 Update Records Purpose To update existing entities or records in a specified module. Endpoints PUT /{module_api_name} Copy full URL PUT /{module_api_name}/{record_id} Copy full URL {module_api_name} : API name of the module whose records you want to update. {record_id} : The unique ID of the record you want to update. Request Details Request URL To update more than one record: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name} To update a specific record: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name}/{record_id} Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Events, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Appointments Rescheduled History, Services and Custom Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 If-Unmodified-Since: 2024-01-15T15:26:49+05:30 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_API_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, custom, appointments, appointments_rescheduled_history, services and notes Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record WRITE - Edit records in the module UPDATE - Update records in the module Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Deals" -X PUT -d "@updatedeal.json" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied { DealData = Map(); DealData.put("id", "5725767000004594012"); DealData.put("Deal_Name", "data"); DealData.put("Company", "Zoho"); DealDataList = List(); DealDataList.add(DealData); paramsMap = Map(); paramsMap.put("data", DealDataList); response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Deals" type: PUT parameters: paramsMap.toString() connection: "zohocrm" ]; info response; } In the request, "@updatelead.json" contains the sample input. Request JSON Keys id string, mandatory Specify the unique ID of the record that you want to update. Refer to Get Records API to get the unique ID of the record. $append_values JSON object, optional Represents whether you want to append the values of the multi-select picklist you specified in the input to the existing values. Specify the API names of the multi-select picklist and "true" or "false" as key-value pairs in this JSON object. The value "true" adds the values in the input to the multi-select picklist, while the value "false" replaces the existing values with the ones in the input. Example: "$append_values":{ "Multi_Select_1": true, "Multi_Select_2": false } Note that the values are appended or replaced only for those records that have this key in the input. For the other multi-select picklists, the existing values are simply replaced by default. apply_feature_execution JSON array, optional Use the apply_feature_execution array to trigger certain CRM features while creating or updating a record through the API. This array supports the following values for the key name : layout_rules: To apply layout rules. criteria_validation_rule: To apply validation rules. layout_rules string: Use this array to apply an existing layout rule when you create a record. Layout rules allow you to show a section, certain fields, set mandatory fields, or show a subform. However, you can only trigger the "Set Mandatory Field" option through the API. Specify the value layout_rules for the key name to apply a layout rule to the record. Note that you must give this key parallel to "data". Ensure that the input body includes all the keys required to satisfy the criteria in the layout rule. The system throws an error, otherwise. For example, if the layout rule triggers when the Lead_Source is Employee Referral, and you have mandated the Company field, then the system throws the MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND error if you fail to give the Company key in the input. Refer to the sample input section. criteria_validation_rule string: To trigger Validation Rules during record creation or update via the API, include the apply_feature_execution array in your request body. "apply_feature_execution": [ { "name": "criteria_validation_rule" } ] When you use the apply_feature_execution array with criteria_validation_rule , the system evaluates all applicable rules. If multiple rules fail at the same time, the API returns the MULTIPLE_OR_MULTI_ERRORS response. skip_feature_execution JSON array, optional By default, if a Cadence is configured for a module, it will be executed automatically when you update a record via API. This key lets you skip the execution of the Cadences feature during record updates. Specify "cadences" as the value for the "name" key to skip Cadences execution for the record. Ensure you include this key alongside the "data" key in your request. The supported value for the "name" key is "cadences" . Note The 'INVALID_DATA' err

---

## Merge Records API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/merge-records.html`

Merge Records API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Merge Records API This API merges up to three duplicate records into a single one, deleting the duplicates. You can specify one as the master record which is to be retained post-merge, and the other two as child records which are to be deleted. You can specify fields from the child records whose values are to be used for the merged record, and retain the master record values for the remaining fields. To explore more on the Find and Merge feature, please refer to our help document . Purpose To merge upto three duplicate records into a single record and delete the duplicates. Endpoints POST /{module_api_name}/{master-record_ID}/actions/merge Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name}/{master-record_ID}/actions/merge Supported Modules Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Potentials, Vendors and Custom. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} Possible Module Names Leads, Contacts, Potentials, Accounts, Vendors, and custom. Possible Operation Types WRITE - Edit records in a module. ALL - Full access to the record. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/2423488000000500064/actions/merge" -X POST -d @input.json -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Input JSON master_record_fields JSON array, optional Specify the API name of the file upload and image upload fields to retain them in the merged record. api_name string, mandatory Represents the API name of the file upload or image upload fields. _data JSON array, optional It represents the unique ID of a file or attachment. This field is specifically used for File Upload and Image Upload fields in a record. Use GET Records API to retrieve the unique IDs of the files or attachments. id string, mandatory The unique ID of the attachment. data JSON array, mandatory An array of objects specifying the child records and the fields whose values you want to use in the merged record. id string, mandatory Represents the unique ID of the child record. _fields JSON array, mandatory Specify the API names of the fields from the child record whose values you wish to merge into the master record. api_name string, mandatory Represents the API name of the fields in the child record that you want to include in the merge. Notes If an image upload or file upload is not specified, all the images/files in the master record will be retained. If '_data': null is provided, all the images/files for that specific field will be deleted. If a child record has more than 1000 records in any of its related lists, then the merge action will be scheduled . This meas that it performs an asynchronous action, and the response to your request will not be available immediately. Instead, you will receive a unique job_id in the response. You can use this job_id to retrieve the status of your merge action. For details, please refer to the Get Records Merge Status API . The merge JSON array can only contain one object, while the data JSON array can have a maximum of two child records. Exceeding these limits will result in errors. Each field should only be mentioned once across the master_record_fields and data arrays. Only open deals can be merged; closed deals will trigger an error. The closing date, stage, probability, and expected revenue fields will be automatically populated based on the master record and should not be specified in the request. Records currently locked or in an approval/review process cannot be merged. Sample Input Copied { "merge": [ { "master_record_fields": [ { "api_name": "Company" }, { "api_name": "File_Upload", "_data": [ { "id": "2423488000000538058" } ] } ], "data": [ { "id": "2423488000000495876", "_fields": [ { "api_name": "Annual_Revenue" }, { "api_name": "Last_Name" } ] } ] } ] } Possible Errors INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 Master record ID is not available Resolution: Specify a valid record ID . The merge JSON array has reached its limit Resolution: The merge JSON array can have only one JSON object. The data JSON object has reached its limit Resolution: The data JSON array can have a maximum of two values, corresponding to the two child records. Atleast one child record ID is required to be merged Resolution: The data JSON array cannot be empty. Please specify valid data. Reporting_To and Account_Name should belong to the same record Resolution: The Reporting_To and Account_Name should be used from the same record. MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND HTTP 400 The API names in the field JSON array cannot be empty Resolution: Specify the valid API names in the merge JSON array. The API names in the merge JSON array cannot be empty Resolution: Specify the valid API names in the fields JSON array. The ID of the child record is empty Resolution: Specify valid IDs for the child record. INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The module name given seems to be invalid Resolution: Please specify the a modu

---

## Record Count in a Module | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/module_record_count.html`

Record Count in a Module | Zoho CRM API | V8 Record Count in a Module Purpose To fetch the total number of records in the module or the number of records that match the criteria. You can also get the number of records from a custom view of a module. GET /{module_api_name}/actions/count?cvid={custom_view_ID_here} Copy full URL GET /{module_api_name}/actions/count?criteria={criterion_here} Copy full URL GET /{module_api_name}/actions/count?email={email_here} Copy full URL GET /{module_api_name}/actions/count?phone={phone_number_here} Copy full URL GET /{module_api_name}/actions/count?word={search_word_here} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name}/actions/count Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Tasks, Meetings, Calls, Products, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Campaigns, Vendors, Cases, Solutions, Services, Appointments, Appointments Rescheduled History and Custom Header Authorization : Zoho-oauthtoken <access_token> Scope Scope = ZohoSearch.securesearch.READ (and) ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.READ (and) scope=ZohoCRM.settings.layouts.READ/ALL (or) scope=ZohoCRM.settings.ALL Parameters cvid string, optional The ID of the custom view from which you want to get the record count. Use the Custom Views Metadata API to get the custom views available in the module. Example: cvid=5690xxxx980. Note that you cannot combine search parameters with this parameter ; it will result in the "AMBIGUITY_DURING_PROCESSING" error. criteria string, optional The condition to obtain the number of records that match the criterion. You can filter the records based on the API name of the field. The supported operators are equals , starts_with , in , not_equal , greater_equal , greater_than , less_equal , less_than and between . The supported data types are picklist , id , owner_lookup , user_lookup , lookup , phone , email , date , datetime , integer , currency , decimal and double . phone string, optional The total number of records you want to retrieve that contain the given phone number in their Phone field. Example: phone=9876543210. email string, optional The total number of records you want to retrieve that contain the given email ID in their Email field. Ensure that you encode any special characters in the email ID. Example: email=p%2Bboyle@abc.com (the encoded form for the email p+boyle@abc.com). word string, optional The total number of records you want to retrieve that contain the given word in any of their fields. Example: word=fin. Note Apart from the above parameters, you can also use other optional parameters mentioned on the Search records page. There would be a 1-10 minute delay in refreshing the statistics. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/actions/count?cvid=554023000000430419" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Possible Errors AMBIGUITY_DURING_PROCESSING HTTP 400 Reason: You have specified "cvid" and one of the search parameters like "criteria", "phone", "email", or "word" in the request. Resolution: You can only include either "cvid" or one of the search parameters in the request. INVALID_QUERY HTTP 400 Reasons: You have formed an invalid search query. The operator is not supported for that field in the query. Resolution: Refer to the "details" key in the response. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 You do not have the scope required to use this API. Resolution: Use the correct scope and generate the grant and access tokens. Sample Response Copied { "count": 694 }

---

## Related Records Count | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-related-records-count.html`

Related Records Count | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get Related Records Count of a Record Purpose To get the count of related records of a record in a module. Endpoints POST /{module_API_name}/{record_ID}/actions/get_related_records_count Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_API_name}/{record_ID}/actions/get_related_records_count Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.{module_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, custom, appointments, appointments_rescheduled_history, and services Possible operation types ALL - Full access to records READ - Get records data Note You can get the count of the system-defined related lists like Survey, Desk, Projects, Visits, Expense, Invoice, and Subscription, custom related lists created via lookup, multi-select lookup, multi-module lookup fields, and related lists created when you enable history tracking in a picklist. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/3652397000016143002/actions/get_related_records_count" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@input.json" -X POST Input JSON related_list JSON object, mandatory Contains the following keys: id string, mandatory if you do not include "api_name" The ID of the related list whose record count you want to fetch. For example, if you want to fetch the number of notes for a specific record in the Leads module, you must give the ID of the Notes related list for this key. Use the Get Related Records API to get the ID of the related list in the key id . api_name string, mandatory if you do not include "id" The API name of the related list whose record count you want to fetch. For example, if you want to fetch the number of attachments for a specific record in the Leads module, you must give the ID of the Attachments related list for this key. Use the Get Related Records API to get the API name of the related list in the key api_name . Note You can specify up to 20 JSON objects in the input. That is, you can get the count of up to 20 related list records . Sample Input Copied { "get_related_records_count": [ { "related_list": { "id": "3652397000000015122", "api_name": "Notes" } } ] } Response JSON Keys count integer The number of related records associated with the record specified in the request. related_list JSON object Contains the following keys: id string The ID of the related list whose record count you fetched. api_name string The API name of the related list whose record count you fetched. Possible Errors INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 Either the record ID is invalid in the request URL or you do not have permission to view the record. Resolution: Specify a valid record ID. Use the Get Records API for the record ID. For permission issue, contact your system administrator. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 Either the ID or API name of the related list is invalid in the request body. Resolution: Specify a valid ID and API name of the related list in the "related_list" JSON object. Use the Get Related Records API to get the ID and API name of the related list. MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND HTTP 400 You have not include the "related_list" JSON object in the request body. Resolution: Refer to the Input JSON section for the mandatory and optional keys in the input. INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The module API name in the request URL is invalid. Resolution: Specify a valid module API name. Use the Get Module Metadata API for the module API name. EXPECTED_FIELD_MISSING HTTP 400 You have specified neither "id" nor "api_name" of the related list in the request body. Resolution: You must include either "id" or "api_name" of the related list in the input. Refer to the Sample Input section for details. AMBIGUITY_DURING_PROCESSING HTTP 400 The ID and API name of the related list do not match. Resolution: Ensure to specify the right API name and ID of the related list. Use the Get Related Records API to get the ID and API name of the related list. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 You do not have sufficient permission to read the module records. Resolution: Contact your system administrator. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The request method is incorrect. Resolution: Use the HTTP POST method to make this API call. Any other request method will result in this error. AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE HTTP 401 You have not authenticated the API call with valid access token. Resolution: Include a valid access token in the request header to authenticate the API call. INVALID_TOKEN HTTP 401 Your access token has expired. Resolution: Generate a new access token with the required scope and make this API call. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 The access token you have used to make this API call does not have the required scope. Resolution: Generate a new access token wi

---

## List of Deleted Records | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-deleted-records.html`

List of Deleted Records | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get List of Deleted Records Purpose To get the list of deleted records. Endpoints GET /{module_api_name}/deleted Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name}/deleted Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Events, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Custom, Appointments, Appointments Rescheduled History, Services and Activities Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 If-Modified-Since: Use this header to get the list of recently modified records. Example: 2019-07-25T15:26:49+05:30 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, custom, appointments, appointments_rescheduled_history, services and activities Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record READ - Get records in the module Parameters type string, optional Specify the type of deleted records you want to retrieve. Possible values - all : To get the list of all deleted records. This is the default value. recycle : To get the list of deleted records from recycle bin. permanent : To get the list of permanently deleted records. page integer, optional To get the list of records from the respective pages. Default value for page is 1 . Possible values: Positive integers only per_page integer, optional To get the list of records available per page. The default and the maximum possible value is 200 . Possible values: Positive integers only Note The page and per_page parameter is used to fetch records according to their position in the CRM. Let's assume that the user has to fetch 400 records. The maximum number of records that one can get for an API call is 200. So, for records above the 200th position, they cannot be fetched. By using the page (1, 2) and per_page (200) parameter, the user can fetch all 400 records using 2 API calls. Using this API, you can fetch records that have been temporarily deleted or moved to the recycle bin up to 60 days from the date of deletion. Similarly, records that have been permanently deleted can be retrieved up to 120 days from the date of deletion. Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/deleted?type=all" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/deleted?type=all" type: GET connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; Response JSON keys deleted_by JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user who deleted the current record. id string Represents the unique ID of the deleted record. display_name string Represents the display name of the deleted record. type string Represents the type of the deleted record. The value can be: all, recycle, or permanent. created_by JSON object Represents the name and ID of the user who created the current record. deleted_time string Represents the date and time at which the record was deleted. Possible Errors INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The module name given seems to be invalid Resolution: You have specified an invalid module name or there is no tab permission, or the module could have been removed from the available modules. Specify a valid module API name. INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The given module is not supported in API Resolution: The modules such as Documents and Projects are not supported in the current API. (This error will not be shown, once these modules are been supported). Specify a valid module API name. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to request URL section above. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: Client does not have ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.READ. Create a new client with valid scope. Refer to scope section above. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 Permission denied to read Resolution: The user does not have permission to retrieve deleted records. Contact your system administrator. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in the server. Contact support team. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to endpoints section above. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 User does not have sufficient privilege to read records Resolution: The user does not have the permission to retrieve deleted records. Contact your system administrator. PATTERN_NOT_MATCHED HTTP 400 Please check whether the input values are correct Resolution: The value 

---

## Remove Tags from Multiple Records - APIs | Online Help - Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/remove-tags.html`

Remove Tags from Multiple Records - APIs | Online Help - Zoho CRM Remove Tags from Records Purpose To delete the tags associated with records. Endpoints POST /{module_API_name}/actions/remove_tags Copy full URL POST /{module_API_name}/{record_ID}/actions/remove_tags Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To Remove Multiple Tags from Multiple Records: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_API_name}/actions/remove_tags To remove tags from a specific record: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_API_name}/{record_ID}/actions/remove_tags Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Events, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, and Custom modules. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, and custom modules. Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record WRITE - Edit records in the module Sample Request to Remove Multiple Tags from Multiple Records Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/actions/remove_tags" -X POST -d @input.json -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied tag1 = Map(); tag1.put("name","Prime"); tag2 = Map(); tag2.put("name","Attend First"); tags_list = List(); tags_list.add(tag1); tags_list.add(tag2); param = Map(); param.put("tags",tags_list); recordIDs = List(); recordIDs.add(&#039;554023000002365002&#039;); recordIDs.add(&#039;554023000001736019&#039;); param.put("ids",recordIDs); res = invokeurl [ url :"https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/actions/remove_tags" type :POST parameters: param.toString() connection:"zohooauth" ]; Input JSON tags JSON Object, mandatory Specify the names of the tags you want to remove from the record. ids JSON Array, mandatory when removing tags from multiple records Specify comma separated records IDs from which the tags must be removed. You can specify a maximum of 500 records IDs. Retrieve the record IDs using the GET - Records API . Sample Input to Remove Multiple Tags from Multiple Records Copied { "tags": [ { "name": "Prime" }, { "name": "Attend First" } ], "ids": [ "554023000000793002", "554023000000792001" ] } Possible Errors INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the Request URL section. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: Client does not have ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.WRITE scope. Create a new client with valid scope. Refer to the Scope section. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 Permission denied to remove tags Resolution: The user does not have permission to remove tags from the records. Contact your system administrator. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in Server. Contact support team. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to the Endpoints section. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 User does not have sufficient privilege to remove tags Resolution: The user does not have the permission to remove tags from the records. Contact your system administrator. INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The module name given seems to be invalid Resolution: You have specified an invalid module name or there is no tab permission, or the module could have been removed from the available modules. Specify a valid module API name. Refer to the GET - Modules Metadata API to retrieve the module API names. INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The given module is not supported in API Resolution: The modules such as Documents and Projects are not supported in the current API. (This error will not be shown, once these modules are been supported). Specify a valid module API name. Sample Response Copied { "data": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "554023000000793002", "tags": [ { "name": "Nurture", "id": "554023000002555018", "color_code": "#57B1FD" } ] }, "message": "tags updated successfully", "status": "success" }, { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "554023000000792001", "tags": [ { "name": "Nurturing Lead", "id": "554023000002172011", "color_code": "#57B1FD" }, { "name": "web", "id": "554023000001180007", "color_code": null } ] }, "message": "tags updated successfully", "status": "success" } ], "locked_count": "0" } Sample Request to Remove Tags from a Single Record Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/554023000000792001/actions/remove_tags" -X POST -d @input.json -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Sample Input to Remove T

---

## Add Tags to Multiple Records API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/add-tags.html`

Add Tags to Multiple Records API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Add Tags to Records Purpose To add tags to records. Endpoints POST /{module_API_name}/actions/add_tags Copy full URL POST /{module_API_name}/{record_ID}/actions/add_tags Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To add Multiple Tags to Multiple Records: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_API_name} /actions/add_tags To add tags to a specific record: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_API_name}/{record_ID}/actions/add_tags Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Events, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, and Custom modules. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, and custom modules. Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record WRITE - Edit records in the module CREATE - Create records in the module Input JSON tags JSON Object, mandatory The "name", "id", and "color_code" of the tag you want to add to the records. Refer to the Get the List of Tags API for the available tags and their respective color codes. Note that the ID of the tag takes precedence over the name. over_write Boolean, optional Specify if the existing tags are to be overwritten. Default value is false . ids JSON Array, mandatory when adding tags to multiple records Specify the unique IDs of the records. You can specify a maximum of 500 records IDs. Retrieve the record IDs using the GET - Records API . Sample Input to add Multiple Tags to Multiple Records Copied { "tags": [ { "name": "Nurturing Lead", "id": "4876876000001140124", "color_code": null }, { "name": "Active", "id": "4876876000001143001", "color_code": "#F17574" } ], "ids": [ "4876876000003643731", "4876876000003662003" ] } Possible Errors INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to the Endpoints section. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 User does not have sufficient privilege to add tags Resolution: The user does not have the permission to add tags to the records. Contact your system administrator. INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The module name given seems to be invalid Resolution: You have specified an invalid module name or there is no tab permission, or the module could have been removed from the available modules. Specify a valid module API name. INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The given module is not supported in API Resolution: The modules such as Documents and Projects are not supported in the current API. (This error will not be shown, once these modules are been supported). Specify a valid module API name. Use the Modules API to get the module API names. PATTERN_NOT_MATCHED HTTP 400 Please check whether the input values are correct Resolution: The value specified for one of the input keys is incorrect. Refer to the Request JSON section and specify valid values. RECORD_LOCKED HTTP 400 You cannot perform this operation as the record is locked. Resolution: Please wait until the record is unlocked. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: Client does not have ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.WRITE scope. Create a new client with valid scope. Refer to the Scope section. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 Permission denied to update records Resolution: The user does not have permission to add tags to the records. Contact your system administrator. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the Request URL section. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in Server. Contact support team. Sample Response Copied { "data": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "4876876000003643731", "tags": [ { "name": "Nurturing Lead", "id": "4876876000001140124", "color_code": null }, { "name": "Active", "id": "4876876000001143001", "color_code": "#F17574" } ] }, "message": "tags updated successfully", "status": "success" }, { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "4876876000003662003", "tags": [ { "name": "Nurturing Lead", "id": "4876876000001140124", "color_code": null }, { "name": "Active", "id": "4876876000001143001", "color_code": "#F17574" } ] }, "message": "tags updated successfully", "status": "success" } ], "success_count": "2", "locked_count": "0" } Sample Request to Add Tags to a Record Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/4876876000003643731/actions/add_tags" -X POST -d @input.json -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Copied ag1 = Map(); tag1.put("name

---

## Mass Delete Records API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/mass-delete.html`

Mass Delete Records API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Mass Delete Records Purpose To delete the records of a module in bulk. You can delete up to 50,000 records in a custom view or delete up to 500 records using their record IDs in an API call. Endpoints POST /{module_api_name}/actions/mass_delete Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_API_name}/actions/mass_delete Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Services, Appointments, and custom modules Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.mass_delete.DELETE (or) ZohoCRM.mass_delete.{module_name}.DELETE Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, services, appointments, and custom Note You can delete up to 50,000 records from a custom view and 500 records using their record IDs in a single API call. When you specify the record IDs, and one or more of them have invalid values, only those records will not be deleted. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/actions/mass_delete" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@input.json" -X POST Request JSON Keys cvid string, mandatory when you do not include "ids" The unique ID of the custom view whose records you want to delete. Use the Custom View Metadata API to get the ID of the custom view. Note The cvid key is supported for mass delete via API in the following editions: Enterprise Ultimate CRM Plus Zoho One Enterprise ids JSON object, mandatory when you do not include "cvid" The unique IDs of the records you want to delete. Use the Get Records API to get the record IDs. territory JSON object, optional The unique ID of the territory whose records you want to delete. Use the Get Territories API to get the ID of the territory. include_child Boolean, optional Represents whether you want to delete records from the child territories. Sample Input with Record IDs Copied { "ids":["3652397000006064023","3652397000003852074"] } Sample Request for Record IDs in the Input Copied { "data": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "3652397000006064023" }, "message": "record is deleted", "status": "success" }, { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "3652397000003852074" }, "message": "record is deleted", "status": "success" } ] } Sample Input with CVID and Territory Copied { "cvid": "3652397000000538003", "territory": { "id": "3652397000007622003", "include_child": true } } Response JSON Keys code Represents whether the API was a success or not. details When you give CVID, the response contains the ID of the mass delete job. Use this ID in the Mass Delete Status API . When you give the record IDs in the request body, this key contains the record ID that was deleted. Possible Errors INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The record ID is invalid. Resolution: Provide valid IDs. Use the Get Records API to get the record IDs. ALREADY_SCHEDULED HTTP 400 You are trying to mass delete when a mass delete job is already running. Resolution: You can schedule only one mass delete job at a time. Wait for the already scheduled job to finish before scheduling another one. MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND HTTP 400 You have not specified either the CVID or the record IDs. Resolution: You must specify either the CVID or the record IDs in the input body. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 You do not have sufficient permission to mass delete records. Resolution: Contact your system administrator. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The request method is incorrect. Resolution: Use the HTTP POST method to make this API call. Any other request method will result in this error. NOT_APPROVED HTTP 400 The record you are trying to delete is unapproved. Resolution: You can delete only approved records. NOT_SUPPORTED HTTP 400 The module is not supported to be mass-deleted through an API. Resolution: Contact your administrator. AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE HTTP 401 You have not authenticated the API call with a valid access token. Resolution: Include a valid access token in the request header to authenticate the API call. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 The access token you have used to make this API call does not have the required scope. Resolution: Generate a new access token with the scope ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type}. Refer to the Possible module names and Possible operation types sections for details. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 You do not have permission to delete the record or to mass delete. Resolution: Contact your administrator to obtain permission to delete or mass delete records from the module. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 The request URL is incorrect. Resolution: Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the Request URL section for the right URL. INTERNAL_ERROR

---

## Insert Records | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/insert-records.html`

Insert Records | Zoho CRM API | V8 Insert Records Purpose To add new entities or records in a module. You can insert up to 100 records in a single API call. Endpoints POST /{module_api_name} Copy full URL {module_api_name} : API name of the module where you want to add records. Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name} Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Appointments Rescheduled History, Services and Custom Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, custom, appointments, appointments_rescheduled_history, services and notes Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record WRITE - Edit records in the module CREATE - Create records in the module Note To insert a single record, send only one JSON object in the input with the necessary keys and values. The 'INVALID_DATA' error is thrown if the field value length is more than the maximum length defined for that field. If an API is used inside a Function and the field value exceeds the allowed length, the function will receive an error response from the API. For example, if a Text field has a maximum length of 10 , the API cannot accept a value like "12345678901" , since it exceeds the limit with 11 characters. Duplicates are checked for every insert record API call based on unique fields. A maximum of 100 records can be inserted per API call. You must use only Field API names in the input. You can obtain the field API names from: Fields metadata API (the value for the key “api_name” for every field). (Or) Setup > Developer Hub > APIs and SDKs > API Names > {{Module}} . Choose “Fields” from the “Filter By” drop-down. The trigger input can be workflow , approval , blueprint , pathfinder , or orchestration (for the Journey Builder feature). If trigger is not mentioned, the automation actions related to the API will get executed. Enter the trigger value as [] to not execute the workflows. Records with Subform details can also be inserted to CRM using the Records API. Refer to Subforms API to learn more about adding subform information within a record. For detailed information on subforms, refer to our Kaizen post : Manipulating Subform using Zoho CRM APIs . The $approved key is used to create records in the approval mode. It is mostly used for leads and contacts procured from web forms. Specify the value as false to create the record in approval mode. Multiselect Lookup association is restricted if the dependent record is locked, and the system will throw a RECORD_LOCKED error. In Calls module, the call duration for an Inbound or Outbound call cannot be zero. For any module, specify all the mandatory fields while creating a record. Refer to the Mandatory fields section to know about system-defined mandatory fields for different modules. When inserting multiple records, the Response JSON array maintains the same order as the input records, allowing each response to be mapped to its respective input record. In case of partial success or failure, the API returns an HTTP status - 207 (Multi-Status), where individual record-level success or error details are provided within the response array in the same order. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@newlead.json" -X POST System-defined mandatory fields for each module While inserting records there are a few system-defined mandatory fields that you need to mention. To successfully insert records in Zoho CRM, make sure you enter user-defined mandatory fields too. Leads "Last_Name" - Single Line Contacts "Last_Name" - Single Line Accounts "Account_Name" - Single Line Deals "Deal_Name"- Single Line "Stage" - Picklist "Pipeline" - Single Line (mandatory when pipeline is enabled) Tasks "Subject" - Multi Line Calls "Subject" - Multi Line "Call_Type" - Picklist "Call_Start_Time" - Date/Time "Call_Duration" - Single Line Events "Event_Title"- Single Line "Start_DateTime" - Date/Time "Remind_At" - Single Line "End_DateTime" - Date/Time Products "Product_Name" - Single Line Quotes "Subject"- Single Line "Quoted_Items" - Line item subform Invoices "Subject"- Single Line "Invoiced_Items" - Line item subform Campaigns "Campaign_Name" - Single Line Vendors "Vendor_Name"- Single Line Price Books "Price_Book_Name"- Single Line "Pricing_Details"- JSON Array with "from_range", "to_range", "discount" Cases "Case_Origin" - Picklist "Status"- Picklist "Subject" - Single Line Solutions "Solution_Title"- Single Line Purchase Orders "Subject"

---

## Get Status of Transfer Records and Delete Users | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/transfer-records-delete-user-status.html`

Get Status of Transfer Records and Delete Users | Zoho CRM API | V8 Status of Transfer Records and Delete Users Purpose To get the status of the "transfer records and delete user" job scheduled previously. Endpoints GET /users/actions/transfer_and_delete?job_id={job_id} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/users/actions/transfer_and_delete?job_id={job_id} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.users.READ or scope=ZohoCRM.users.ALL Parameters job_id integer, mandatory The ID of the job scheduled previously through the Transfer Records and Delete User API . Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/users/actions/transfer_and_delete?job_id=3652397000012622009" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Response JSON Keys status string Indicates the status of the job. the possible values are "completed", "failed", "in_progress" Possible Errors REQUIRED_PARAM_MISSING HTTP 400 You have not included job_id parameter in the request. Resolution: Include the "job_id" you received in the response of the Transfer Records and Delete User API . Sample Response Copied { "transfer_and_delete": [ { "status": "completed" } ] }

---

