# PART 1 API V8 OVERVIEW

*Auto-compiled from Zoho CRM official docs | 15 pages*

---

## Client Script - An Overview | Online Help - Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/client-script/overview.html`

Client Script - An Overview | Online Help - Zoho CRM Hi, how can we help? Client Script in Zoho CRM A seamless platform for achieving and extending your business cases. Table of Contents 1. What is a Client Script? 2. Pre-requisites 3. Developer-friendly Client Script IDE 4. Available for multiple pages 5. Executes script based on Events and Commands 6. Code re-usability using Static Resources 7. Support for Portals 8. Trigger Client Script via Custom button 9. Extensive ZDK A. Instant form field validation B. Auto-populate data based on custom conditions C. Display alerts or custom messages D. Accomplish data auto-correction 10. ZRC Support 1. What is a Client Script? Client Script is a piece of JavaScript code that runs on your web browser instead of the server. The Client Script feature gives you a seamless platform for achieving and extending your business cases by allowing users to customize Zoho CRM with your own business logic. It enables you to configure events for the UI components and define the actions once those events are triggered.It enables you to create custom actions that are not otherwise part of the Zoho CRM’s native features. For example, when a user fills the email address of a Lead/Contact, you can perform email discovery and automatically populate relevant data in the form. 2. Pre-requisites The Client Script feature is available in Enterprise, Ultimate and Professional editions of Zoho CRM. Refer to this page for the supported browser versions. You should enable the Developer Permissions for the profile using which you want to access the Client Script feature. To enable the Developer Permissions, Go to Setup > Users and Control > Security Control > select the Profile and enable Developer Permissions. 3. Developer-friendly Client Script IDE Client Script IDE offers you a flawless experience during your development process by providing a cohesive solution with useful features. 4. Available for multiple pages Client Script allows you to accomplish custom actions for different pages in Zoho CRM. This includes the below pages of all standard modules supported by Client Script and all custom modules in Zoho CRM. Create page Edit page Clone page List Page (Standard) Detail Page (Standard) Detail Page (Canvas) Create Page (Wizard) Edit Page (Wizard) You need to create a separate Client Script for every layout of a module. 5. Executes Script based on Events and Commands Client Scripts can run based on module events or commands , giving you flexible ways to activate them. These options are available under the category when creating a Client Script. Event-Based Triggers: Client Scripts can be configured to execute in response to specific events within a module. For instance when a user clicks the Save button on a form or when a value is added or updated in a specific field. This event-driven approach ensures that the script runs automatically when predefined actions occur, streamlining workflows and improving efficiency. Click here to know the events available for different pages. Command-Based Triggers: Commands expand the scope of Client Scripts beyond module-specific events . Users can execute scripts manually: Using custom keyboard shortcuts for quick execution. Through the command palette, enabling access and execution from anywhere in CRM. Commands make Client Scripts versatile by allowing on-demand functionality without being tied to specific pages or modules. This dual-trigger system ensures that Client Scripts can be both proactive and reactive , adapting to diverse user needs in Zoho CRM. Click here to know more about Commands. Note: The execution timeout for Client Script is 10 seconds . 6. Code re-usability using Static Resources Client Script provides the convenience to import existing code files in the form of static resources and use them in your script. You can upload a Javascript file as a static resource, include the uploaded file in your script using the Add button on the right pane of the Code Editor, and call the method in the static resource file from your script. Refer to Static Resources in Client Script for more information. 7. Support for Portals Client Script functionality is available in Zoho CRM Portals, enabling businesses to enhance portal interactions without creating new scripts. Client Script will automatically function in portals also . Client Script can be configured to apply portal-wide, target specific user types, or individual users, aligning with business needs. For newly created user types, Client Script are enabled by default. You can fetch user-specific details using $Crm.user . Click here to view sample codes related to Portals. 8. Trigger Client Script via Custom button Custom Buttons enable you to extend Zoho CRM by performing a predefined set of actions tailored to your requirements. With Client Script support for Custom Buttons, you can accomplish a new level of control, interactivity, and speed within Zoho CRM. Here is the list of what you can ac

---

## Widgets Overview | Online Help - Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/widgets/`

Widgets Overview | Online Help - Zoho CRM Hi, how can we help? Widgets in Zoho CRM Table of Contents 1. What is a Widget? 2. Pre-requisites 3. Limits 4. Types of Widgets 1. What is a Widget? Widgets are embeddable UI components that you can create and add to your Zoho CRM. You can use widgets to perform functions that utilize data from third-party applications . You can build widgets for Zoho CRM using our JS SDK. Widgets support ZRC , enabling seamless and consistent API calls using unified syntax. There are times when there is a need to use services from some off-the-shelves softwares that differ from a regular CRM. For instance, a dial-pad for calling someone. Although it is available as a separate software, it isn't conventionally available in a CRM. But fret not! Widgets in Zoho CRM are embeddable UI components that you can create on your own, using our JS Software Development Kit . These widgets can be used to perform certain functions that utilizes data from third-party applications seamlessly. Let's say you have certain metrics that you measure using an Analytics software. You need to open a new tab for analytics, and if you use other services, like monitoring your website, data from other services, etc, the things that you have to work with are separated into different parts. Through Widgets in Zoho CRM, you can use data from these services and display and use them to perform actions within the CRM. For instance, you can have a widget which displays a heatmap of the distribution of sales in a city. You can get an idea of the locations where the sales are booming and where they are not, and plan accordingly. 2. Pre-requisites Widgets are available in Professional , Enterprise and Ultimate editions of Zoho CRM. Refer to this page for the supported browser versions. You should enable the Developer Permissions for the profile using which you want to access the Widgets. To enable the Developer Permissions, Go to Setup > Users and Control > Security Control > select the Profile and enable Developer Permissions. 3. Limits You can create a maximum of 200 Widgets in Enterprise Edition and 200 in Ultimate Edition. 4. Types of Widgets The following are the types of Widgets that can be embedded in Zoho CRM. Widget in a Dashboard Widget in a Web tab Widget in a Custom Button Widget in a Custom Related List Widget in a Wizard Widget in a Signal Widget in Settings Widget in a Blueprint The provision to include external services to Zoho CRM helps to extend the functionalities of your application by a notch. Zoho CRM's Widgets, enable you to build embeddable UI components in the CRM and integrate them with the external application seamlessly. Related Topics Installing CLI Creating your Widget Using Widgets JS SDK Widgets in a Wizard

---

## Composite API - An Overview | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/composite-overview.html`

Composite API - An Overview | Zoho CRM API | V8 Composite API - An Overview The composite API allows you to combine up to five API calls in a single request consuming just one credit per composite call. This API reduces the round-trip time and allows you to execute the APIs in a single database transaction, if needed. By single database transaction, we mean that your request can have multiple sub-requests (individual APIs), and the execution can happen in a sequence. You will get a response when all the sub-requests are executed successfully, or after the entire composite request is rolled-back(all changes reverted) owing to the failure of a single sub-request. What is Round-trip time (RTT) and how does this API reduce it? The time taken for a client request to reach the server and render a response back in the client is called the Round-trip time. Since you club all the requests in a composite API, round-trip time is saved. Should one or more of the sub-requests fail, you can choose to rollback (revert all the changes) the entire transaction. The keys "rollback_on_fail" and "parallel_execution" rollback_on_fail : This boolean key represents whether you want to rollback the composite request when one or more sub-requests fail. parallel_execution : This boolean key represents whether you want to process all the independent sub-requests in parallel. Let us discuss the two scenarios in which this API is at its best. Sub-requests are not executed under the same transaction Parallel execution is false Use this flow when there are sub-requests that are internally dependent through an automation action. For example, you have configured a workflow that is triggered when the vendor's name is Zylker. In sub-request 1, you update an existing vendor's name from Zoho to Zylker. In sub-request 2, you create a contact associating the recently-updated vendor using its ID. Both appear like independent requests, but have internal dependency through the workflow. That is, to trigger the workflow, you must execute sub-request 1 first, followed by the second. Hence, you cannot use parallel execution. { "parallel_execution" : false, "__composite_requests": [ { "sub_request_id":"1", "method":"PUT", "uri":"/crm/v3/Vendors/111111000000050313", "headers":{}, "body": { "data":[ { "Email":"v@gmail.com", "Vendor_Name":"V1" } ] } }, { "sub_request_id":"2", "method":"POST", "uri":"/crm/v3/Contacts", "body":{ "data":[ { "Vendor_Name":"111111000000050313", "Last_Name":"composite", "Email":"composite2@test.test" } ] } } ] } Parallel execution is true Case 1: With independent sub-requests Use this flow when your sub-requests are independent of each other and you want to save time by executing them in parallel. For example, fetching the leads, fetching the metadata of another module etc,. Case 2: With dependent and independent sub-requests Use this when your sub-requests are independent of each other and you want to save time by executing them in parallel. For example, fetching the leads, fetching the metadata of another module etc,. { "parallel_execution" : true, "__composite_requests": [ { "sub_request_id":"1", "method":"POST", "uri":"/crm/v3/Leads", "headers":{}, "body": { "data":[ { "Last_Name":"composite", "Email":"composite@test.test" } ] } }, { "sub_request_id":"2", "method":"POST", "uri":"/crm/v3/Contacts", "body":{ "data":[ { "Account_Name":"@{1:$.data[0].details.id}", "Last_Name":"composite", "Email":"composite2@test.test" } ] } }, { "sub_request_id":"3", "method":"POST", "uri":"/crm/v3/Accounts", "body":{ "data":[ { "Account_Name":"A1" } ] } } ] } Sub Requests are executed under the same transaction (rollback_on_fail:true, parallel_exec:false) When there are dependent sub-requests and the execution of one depends on the response of another sub-request. Here, you must reference the sub-request whose data you want to use in another sub-request. For example, you want to upsert a record in the Contacts module(sub-request 1), upsert a record in the Accounts module(sub-request 2), and convert a lead while associating it to the previously upserted contact and account(sub-request 3). Sub-request 3 depends on the execution of sub-requests 1 and 2. This allows you to rollback the composite request when one of the sub-requests fails. That is, the contact and account will not be upserted. The input would look like the following. { "rollback_on_fail": true, "parallel_execution" : false, "__composite_requests": [ { "sub_request_id":"1", "method":"POST", "uri":"/crm/v3/Contacts/upsert", "headers":{}, "body": { "data":[ { "Last_Name":"composite", "Email":"composite@test.test" } ] } }, { "sub_request_id":"2", "method":"POST", "uri":"/crm/v3/Accounts/upsert", "body":{ "data":[ { "Account_Name":"C1", "Email":"composite2@test.test" } ] } }, { "sub_request_id":"3", "method":"POST", "uri":"/crm/v3/Leads/111111000000095001/actions/convert", "body":{ "data":[ { "Accounts":"@{2:$.data[0].details.id}", "Contacts":"@{1:$.data[0].details.id}" } ] } } ] }

---

## Bulk Read API - Overview | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/bulk-read/overview.html`

Bulk Read API - Overview | Zoho CRM API | V8 Bulk Read APIs - An Overview The Bulk Read API allows you to fetch large sets of data efficiently. It is useful for exporting large amounts of data or backing up data without significantly affecting your API limits. Note Asynchronous Processing: The response is not available immediately. Notification via Callback: You can receive a notification at a specified callback URL when the data is ready. Polling Option: Alternatively, you can check the job status periodically. The results are available only as a downloadable CSV file or an ICS file. You can export the records as an ICS file only for the Events module. How Bulk Read API Works in Zoho CRM The Bulk Read API follows a three-step process: Step 1 : Create a Bulk Read Job Make a POST API call to create a bulk read job. Provide the module name , list of fields to export , and filter criteria to specify the data you need. The response contains a unique job ID (id), which serves as a reference for your request. Step 2: Check Job Status If you want automatic notification when the job is completed, specify a callback URL while creating the job. Alternatively, you can poll the job status periodically by making a GET API call using the job ID . Step 3: Download the Result Once the job is successfully completed, the API response includes a download_url in the result attribute. Call the download_url to download the ZIP file. The ZIP file contains the exported data in CSV or ICS format.

---

## Notifications APIs - Overview | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/notifications/overview.html`

Notifications APIs - Overview | Zoho CRM API | V8 Notification APIs - An Overview Notification APIs allow you to get instant notifications whenever an action is performed on the records of a module. The system notifies you of the event on the URL provided. You can also enable notifications based on a specific operation like create, update, or delete. Key Features of Notification APIs Instant notifications - Receive immediate alerts whenever records are created, updated, or deleted. This helps you keep your data synchronized between your application and Zoho CRM. Field-specific notifications - From version 6, you can also choose to get notifications when an event occurs only on certain fields of the module. For example, raising an alert when a Deal's Stage is updated. Specify the criteria to raise an alert in the notification_condition array. Unique Channel ID - You can create a unique channel ID for every module to ensure that the notification is from a particular channel. Expiry time - Set expiry time for every channel and have better control over notifications. Disable notifications - You can disable notifications at any time if they are no longer required. Advantages of using Notification APIs Get near real-time updates on record events. Customize notification settings depending on your workflows and business needs. Easily synchronize data between your application and Zoho CRM. With Notification APIs, you can: Enable Notifications Get Notification Details Update Notification Details Update Specific Information of a Notification Disable Notifications Disable Specific Notification

---

## Initiate Bulk Read Job API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/bulk-read/create-job.html`

Initiate Bulk Read Job API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Create Bulk Read job (Bulk Export) Purpose The Bulk Read API is used to create a bulk read job to export records from Zoho CRM. This allows retrieving large datasets efficiently without consuming standard API limits. Endpoints POST /read Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/bulk/{version}/read Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.bulk.read (and) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, price books, quotes, sales orders, purchase orders, invoices, and custom Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record READ - Get bulk read job Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/bulk/v8/read" -X POST -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "@inputData.json" Request JSON callback JSON Object, optional The JSON object represents the following details of a bulk read job. url (string)- A valid URL, that should allow HTTP Post method. The Bulk Read Job's details is posted to this URL on successful completion of job or on failure of job. method (string)- The HTTP method of the callback url. The supported value is post . query JSON Object, optional Represents the JSON object that holds the keys and their value that form the criteria for bulk export. The following are the keys in the JSON object: module (JSON object, mandatory)- Represents the API Name of the module you want to export the records from. For instance, Leads. Specify the module name as "Events" if you want to export the records in the Events module as an ICS file. file_type (string, mandatory when you want to export the events as an ICS file) If exporting records from the Events module, set this to ics to receive an ICS file instead of a CSV. Sample Input to fetch all the records in a module Copied { "callback": { "url": "https://www.example.com/callback", "method": "post" }, "query": { "module": { "api_name": "Events" } }, "file_type": "ics" } This query fetches all the records in the Events module in the ICS format. Sample input to fetch the next set of records using the "page_token" key Copied { "query": { "page_token": "a4d1c8ff7a770500e0483a7bc4b3a40a7160" } } If there are more than 200,000 records to export in your Bulk Read API call, use the " page_token" key to fetch the next set of records. You can retrieve the value for the " page_token" key from the " next_page_token" key in the response of your first Get the Status of the Bulk Read Job API . To fetch records with criteria When using Bulk Read API , you can define criteria to filter and retrieve specific records. Below are the key parameters and their descriptions: cvid (string, mandatory) - Represents the unique ID of the custom view when you want to export records in a custom view. You can obtain the cvid from the Custom View Metadata API . fields (JSON array, optional) - List of field API names to be exported (e.g., "First_Name", "Email", "Owner.last_name"). Note: If exporting Events as an ICS file, do not include this key . page (integer, optional) - The default value is 1 and means that the first 200,000 records matching your query will get exported. If you want to fetch the records from the range 200,001 to 400,000, then mention the value as '2'. page_token (string, optional) The token used to fetch the next page of results. You can use the " page " key to fetch up to 200,000 records without "page_token". To fetch more than 200,000 records, you must include the " page_token " key in the request body. This key takes the value from the key " next_page_token " in the response of the first Get the Status of the Bulk Read Job API . Notes : This token value is user-specific. If you use another user's token, the system throws an error. The page token will be active for a maximum of 24 hours. criteria (JSON object, optional) - Represents the details that the system uses to filter records. Example, the API Name of a module or field, comparators used to add two or more criteria, a group which the record/module/field belongs to etc. the following are the keys of this JSON object: group_operator (string, mandatory if api_name, comparator and value are not specified) - Represents the Logical operators. Supported values - and, or. group (JSON array, mandatory if api_name, comparator and value are not specified) - Represents the array of criteria objects. Each object in the criteria has the following keys: field (JSON object, mandatory if group and group_operator are not specified)- The keys in this JSON object represents the API name of a field to be compared. For instance: First_Name, Last_Name, Owner.last_name etc. value (string/JSON array, mandatory if group and group_operator are not specified)- Here in this example the key is given as a part of gro

---

## Get Bulk Read Job Details | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/bulk-read/job-details.html`

Get Bulk Read Job Details | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get the Status of the Bulk Read Job Purpose To get the details of a bulk read job performed previously. Endpoints GET /read/{job_id} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/bulk/{version}/read/{job_id} where job_id is the unique ID of the bulk read job. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.bulk.read (or) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, tasks, cases, events, calls, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, and custom Possible operation types ALL - Full access to related records READ - Get bulk read job Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/bulk/v7/read/3652397000000646004" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Sample Response: For Job ADDED Copied { "data": [ { "id": "3652397000000646004", "operation": "read", "state": "ADDED", "result": { "page": 1, "per_page": 200000, "count": 200000, "download_url": "/crm/bulk/v7/read/2276164000001136017/result", "more_records": true, "next_page_token": "bca6fba106357ae3b1ecbd63ff40e5adb9c13f1997c193fbc35bc140727bf03c7e46e7981c75628ca414955c020a3ee8" }, "query": { "module": { "id": "2276164000000000125", "api_name": "Contacts" }, "page": 1 }, "created_by": { "id": "2276164000000471001", "name": "Patricia" }, "created_time": "2024-07-20T00:51:23+05:30", "file_type": "csv" } ] } Sample Response: For Job QUEUED Copied { "data": [ { "id": "3652397000000646004", "operation": "read", "state": "QUEUED", "result": { "page": 1, "per_page": 200000, "count": 200000, "download_url": "/crm/bulk/v7/read/2276164000001136017/result", "more_records": true, "next_page_token": "bca6fba106357ae3b1ecbd63f" }, "query": { "module": { "id": "2276164000000000125", "api_name": "Contacts" }, "page": 1 }, "created_by": { "id": "2276164000000471001", "name": "Patricia" }, "created_time": "2024-07-20T00:51:23+05:30", "file_type": "csv" } ] } Sample Response: For Job IN PROGRESS Copied { "data": [ { "id": "3652397000000646004", "operation": "read", "state": "IN PROGRESS", "result": { "page": 1, "per_page": 200000, "count": 200000, "download_url": "/crm/bulk/v7/read/2276164000001136017/result", "more_records": true, "next_page_token": "bca6fba106357ae3b1ecbd63f" }, "query": { "module": { "id": "2276164000000000125", "api_name": "Contacts" }, "page": 1 }, "created_by": { "id": "2276164000000471001", "name": "Patricia" }, "created_time": "2024-07-20T00:51:23+05:30", "file_type": "csv" } ] } Sample Response: For Job COMPLETED Copied { "data": [ { "id": "3652397000000646004", "operation": "read", "state": "COMPLETED", "result": { "page": 1, "per_page": 200000, "count": 200000, "download_url": "/crm/bulk/v7/read/2276164000001136017/result", "more_records": true, "next_page_token": "bca6fba106357ae3b1ecbd63f" }, "query": { "module": { "id": "2276164000000000125", "api_name": "Leads" }, "page": 1 }, "created_by": { "id": "2276164000000471001", "name": "Patricia" }, "created_time": "2024-07-20T00:51:23+05:30", "file_type": "csv" } ] } Response Structure operation string Specifies the type of action the API completed. Sample - "operation" : "read”. created_by JSON Object Specifies the ID and Name of the user who initiated the bulk read job. Sample - "created_by": { "id": "1000000031045", "name": "Patricia Boyle" }, created_time ISO8601 Specifies the time period of when the bulk read job was initialized. state string Specifies the current status of the bulk read job. Example: "state": "ADDED", "QUEUED", "IN PROGRESS", or "COMPLETED". query JSON Object Specifies the "query" provided by the user when creating the bulk read job. The attributes are the same as in the Request JSON, with "modules", "cvid" , fields", "criteria" and "page". id String Specifies the unique identifier of the bulk read job. Sample - "id": "1000010760002". result JSON Object It is available only after the completion of the job. Please refer to the below section for information on the "result" JSON object. "result" Properties page Integer Describes the range of the number of records exported. If the "page" is one, then the number of records would be between 1 - 200,000. If it's "two", then the records from 200,001 - 400,000 will be taken for export. page_token string The token used to fetch the next page of results. You can use the " page " key to fetch up to 200,000 records without "page_token". To fetch more than 200,000 records, you must include the " page_token " key in the request body. count Integer Specifies the actual number of records exported. Sample - "count": 14567 download_url String Specifies the url which contains the CSV file. User can send a GET request with your api domain attached to the download URL to download the file. Sample - "/crm/bulk/v7/read/2883756000001275012/result". more_records boolean The "more_rec

---

## Bulk Read API - Limitations | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/bulk-read/limitations.html`

Bulk Read API - Limitations | Zoho CRM API | V8 Limitations Things of Note Polling and Callback options are supported in this API. This API is supported for all modules except Notes, Attachments, Emails, and related and cross modules. Sorting and Group by clause are not supported via this API endpoint. Response contains a compressed file {job_id}.zip , which contains the result as a {job_id}.csv file. A maximum of 200,000(two hundred thousand) records can be exported in a single export job. i.e, "page" would be "1" and "per_page" would be "200,000." In case there are additional records to be exported, the "page" key can be set to "2", which would fetch the records starting from 200,001. For ICS type export, Every non-recurring event is written in the file as an individual entity. When an event is a recurring one, all the recurring events are squashed into a single entity and written in the file only once. When you update a specific instance of a recurring event, it is written as a separate entity in the ICS file with the RECURRENCE-ID . Limits of Bulk Read APIs Only 10 requests for download are allowed for a one-minute interval. Crossing the limit will result in an error (HTTP code :429) returned to the user as response. All downloads will be unsuccessful and the download request will be processed only after one minute. Use the "more_records" key in the response to detect if there are any further records. You can change the value of "page" key for additional export jobs. After completing the bulk job, you can access the downloadable file only for a period of one day. After that, you cannot access the file via endpoints. Maximum of 200 select fields can be given via an endpoint. Anything above 200, data will be exported with all fields available in that module. Maximum value of "page" key in the export request body is 500. External fields created in any module are not supported in Bulk Read APIs. In the Bulk Read API, an admin can fetch the related fields of a lookup field. For example, if a Deal has a Contact lookup, an admin can get details like the Contact’s email. Non-admin users can only access the lookup field itself, not its related fields. Criteria Limits Maximum number of criteria that can be used in a query is 25 . This also includes the number of criteria in a custom view or a standard view. For example, if you specify the ID of the standard view "My converted Leads", which uses two criteria, the remaining criteria that you can use in the query will be 23. For fields, ' in ' and ' not_in ' comparators can accept upto 20 values. For example: 'Lead Status' - 'in' - 'Cold,Warm,Hot,Junk,Contacted,Not Contacted,....(20 values)' Criteria on Multiline text fields are not supported. Custom views in Activities module are not supported. Co-owner view, standard views Shared By Me and Shared To Me are not supported in this API. ICS Limits ICS file type export is supported only for the Events module. You can export a maximum of 20,000 records per API call as an ICS file. The host of the event is also added as a participant if that event has participants. If you do not specify the email ID of any participant, that record will not be added to the ICS file. When a recurring activity is scheduled beyond 20,000 records per batch, that entity is added even to the next batch of records.

---

## Composite API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/composite-api.html`

Composite API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Composite API Purpose To perform a composite API call, consisting of one or up to five sub-requests. Endpoints POST /__composite_requests Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/__composite_requests Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.composite_requests.CUSTOM (and) Scope of the subrequest Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/__composite_requests" -X POST -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.03xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxa5317.dxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxfa" -d "@newdata.json" Request JSON rollback_on_fail boolean, optional Represents whether to rollback the composite API request if any of the sub-requests fail. The default value is false. parallel_execution boolean, optional Represents whether to process all independent sub-requests (sub-requests with no dependencies/references) in parallel. The default value is true. If "rollback_on_fail" is true, then the default value of this key is false. __composite_requests JSON array, mandatory The JSON array containing the details of the sub-requests. sub_request_id (string, optional) - The request ID for the corresponding sub-request. The accepted regex is [a-zA-Z0-9][a-zA-Z0-9_]* . uri (string, mandatory) - The request URL of the corresponding sub-request. The accepted regex is /crm(/.*)?/v[0-9]+([.][0-9]+)?/.* . method (string, mandatory) - The request method of the corresponding sub-request. The possible methods are GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE. params (JSON Object, optional) - The parameters for the corresponding sub-request. body (JSON object, optional) - The request body of the corresponding sub-request. headers (JSON object, optional) - Headers for the corresponding sub-request. Note that you cannot use the headers "authorization" or "x-crm-org" in this key. Note Using References in Composite API Requests : You can reference the output of one sub-request in another within the same API call. Reference Structure : @{sub_request_id:JSONPath} where, sub_request_id is the sub_request_id of the request you want to reference. JSONPath is the path to the specific data field from that request’s response. For example, if you create a Lead in one sub-request (sub_request_id : 1) and need to update it in another, you can use @{1:$.data[0].details.id} to dynamically fetch the Lead ID from sub-request 1 and use it in sub-request 2 to modify the same record. Refer to the Sample Input section for an example of how to use this concept. rollback_on_fail and parallel_execution keys cannot both be true, simultaneously. For such a request, the system throws the AMBIGUITY_DURING_PROCESSING error. All Delete APIs (except Notification APIs) are only supported with ID support in the URL. Bulk delete option is not supported. When rollback_on_fail is false: Workflows, approvals, and other automation actions are triggered as intended. One API credit is consumed. When rollback_on_fail is true: Workflows : The automation actions are executed only when all the sub-requests are served and a rollback is not performed. If one or more sub-requests fail and a rollback happens, the automation actions are not triggered. For example, consider the case where a workflow is triggered every time a lead is created with the company name starting with 'S'. In sub-request 1, a lead is created, whose Company name starts with 'S', and sub-request 2 edits the newly created record's company name so that it does not start with 'S'. Only after executing both the sub-requests the workflow will be executed. But in this case, the workflow will not be triggered because the newly created Lead's company name is already updated in sub-request 2, and the criterion for the workflow is not met. Consider another case, where in sub-request 1, a lead is created, whose Company name is 'Silicon Solutions', and sub-request 2 edits this newly created record's website. If none of the other sub-requests change the company name of this newly created record, after executing all the sub-requests successfully, the workflow will be triggered. When a rollback happens, one credit will be used for the composite API. When all the sub-requests are successful, two credits will be used for the composite API. Each composite API consumes five concurrency credits, irrespective of the number of sub-requests. Each composite API reduces the sub-concurrency by one, while the sub-requests consume their respective sub-concurrencies. Allowed APIs The following table gives the list of APIs allowed in a composite request. For these APIs, there are restrictions on the number of records that you can create, update, or delete in a composite request. API No. of records allowed Get Org, Get Metadata, Convert a Lead, Get Layout Rules, Get Validation Rules, Get Custom Links, Get/Add/Update Roles, Get Profiles, Get Records' Count, Get/Update Blueprint, Get Variables/Variable Groups, Get Tags, Add/Remove Tags for a record, Get List of Attachments, D

---

## Bulk Write API - Overview | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/bulk-write/overview.html`

Bulk Write API - Overview | Zoho CRM API | V8 Bulk Write APIs - An Overview Bulk Write API allows you to insert, update, or upsert a large set of data. This is an asynchronous API, meaning that the response of your request is not available immediately. When the records are processed, the system notifies you of job completion in the callback URL or you can check the job status periodically. This API allows you to insert, update, or upsert a maximum of 25000 records in a single API call. How it Works Step 1: Prepare your CSV file The Bulk Write API accepts only CSV file compressed into a ZIP file. The first row in the CSV file should be the field API names. Each subsequent row corresponds to a record in Zoho CRM. A CSV file can contain multiple records. All the records in the CSV file must be for the same module. Below is a sample CSV file for inserting records in Leads module. Refer to Limitations to know about CSV file limits. Step 2: Upload your file Upload your CSV file with the required data as a compressed zip file. The response contains the file_id . Use this ID while making a bulk write request. Refer to Upload File to know how to upload the CSV file. Step 3: Create a bulk write job Create(or make) a POST API call with the file_id(from the Upload API), callback URL, operation type (insert, update, or upsert), the module and related fields, and their field mappings. It will create an asynchronous job and return an 'ID', which is the reference for your request. Refer to Create Bulk Write Job for more details. Step 4: Check job status The system notifies you of job completion in the specified 'callback URL'. To check the status of the job before its completion, make a GET API call with the ‘ID’ of the job. Refer Get Bulk Write Job Details to know more. Step 5 : Download the result On successful job completion, the 'download_url' is available in the 'result' attribute of the job details. Call the 'download_url' to download the result. The downloaded file will be in CSV format within a ZIP file and will contain the first three mapped columns from the uploaded file, and three more columns — ID, Status, and Error. Refer to Download Result for more details.

---

## Download Bulk Write Job Result | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/bulk-write/download-result.html`

Download Bulk Write Job Result | Zoho CRM API | V8 Download Bulk Write Result Purpose To download the result of the bulk write job as a CSV file. Download URL Use the URL present in the download_url parameter in the response of Get Bulk Write Job Details . The file will be in the .zip format. Extract it to get the CSV file. The filename would be in the modulename-filename format. Example: Deals-bulkwrite. The CSV file will contain the first three mapped columns from the uploaded file, and three more columns — ID, Status, and Errors. STATUS This column indicates if the record is added, skipped, updated, or unprocessed. RECORD_ID This column indicates the added or updated record's ID in Zoho CRM. ERRORS This column contains the error code. The format is: <errorCode>-<column_header> for a single error. Example: MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND-Company <errorCode>-<column_header>:<errorCode>-<column_header> for multiple errors. Example: MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND-Company,Last_Name:DUPLICATE_DATA-Email The possible errors are MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND, INVALID_DATA, DUPLICATE_DATA, NOT_APPROVED, BLOCKED_RECORD, CANNOT_PROCESS, LIMIT_EXCEEDED, and RESOURCE_NOT_FOUND. Sample Result

---

## Upload File - Bulk Write API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/bulk-write/upload-file.html`

Upload File - Bulk Write API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Upload File Purpose To upload a CSV file in ZIP format for bulk write API. The response contains the file_id . Use this ID while making the bulk write request. Endpoints POST /upload Copy full URL Request Details Request URL https://upload.zoho.com/crm/v8/upload Note For faster file uploads, use the following dedicated upload domains available in the US, EU, and IN data centers: US - upload-accl.zoho.com EU - upload-accl.zoho.eu IN - upload-accl.zoho.in The upload.zoho.com domain continues to be the common upload endpoint for all data centers. Support for faster uploads is now available in the above-mentioned data centers. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 feature: bulk-write - To indicate this is a bulk write job X-CRM-ORG: zgid - The unique ID (zgid) of your organization obtained through the Organization API Scope scope=ZohoFiles.files.ALL Input form-data file file, mandatory Choose the zip file you want to upload. For modules such as Leads and Contacts , you can ZIP one CSV file in it, with a maximum of 25,000 records . If there are more records, make a separate API call by with a ZIP file containing the next 25,000 records in the module. Please note that the Subform and multi-module lookup (MxN linking module) fields are treated as separate modules in Zoho CRM. This is a parent-child module case, for example, the Contacts module is the parent module, and the subform within it is the child module. So, prepare separate CSV files for parent and child modules , then ZIP them together into a ZIP file and upload. For more details on preparing the input file for parent-child record imports, refer to Kaizen #131 - Bulk Write for parent-child records using Scala SDK. Note To import parent-child module data in a single Bulk Write request: Add multiple CSV files in one ZIP file. Field mapping is mandatory . To import subform or linking module records, specify their respective API names in the input request. Refer to the Create Bulk Write Job API for more details. Sample Request Copied curl "https://upload.zoho.com/crm/v8/upload" -X POST -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -H "X-CRM-ORG: 56xxxx47" -H "feature: bulk-write" -F "file=@file.csv.zip" Possible Errors INVALID_FILE_FORMAT HTTP 400 The file you uploaded is not in the zip format. Resolution: Upload the file only in the zip format. FILE_TOO_LARGE HTTP 413 The file size is too large to process. Resolution: The maximum file size is 25MB. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to request URL section above. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: Client does not have ZohoFiles.files.ALL. Create a new client with valid scope. Refer to scope section above. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 Permission denied to create Resolution: The user does not have permission to upload files. Contact your system administrator. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in Server. Contact support team. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to endpoints section above. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 User does not have sufficient privilege to create. Resolution: The user does not have the permission to upload file. Contact your system administrator. Note Refer to the Limitations page to learn more about the CSV file limits. Sample Response Copied { "status": "success", "code": "FILE_UPLOAD_SUCCESS", "message": "file uploaded.", "details": { "file_id": "111111000001492610", "created_time": "2018-12-31T12:00:00-12:00" } }

---

## Get Bulk Write Job Details | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/bulk-write/job-details.html`

Get Bulk Write Job Details | Zoho CRM API | V8 Bulk Write Job Details Purpose To get the details of a bulk write job performed previously. Endpoints GET /write/{job_id} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/bulk/{version}/write/{job_id} where job_id is the unique ID of the bulk write job. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.bulk.CREATE (or) scope=ZohoCRM.bulk.ALL Sample request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/bulk/v8/write/111111000000541958" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Response Structure status string Specifies the current status of the bulk write job. Example: "status": "ADDED" or "IN PROGRESS" or "COMPLETED". character_encoding string Specifies the character encoding for the bulk write job. The system detects the character encoding automatically. However, if you specify, it will take precedence. id string Specifies the unique identifier of the bulk write job. result JSON object download_url: Represents the download URL from which you can download the result (CSV file) of the bulk write job after its successful completion. created_by JSON Object Specifies the ID and Name of the user who initiated the bulk read job. operation string Specifies the type of bulk write operation performed. Sample: "operation": "insert". created_time ISO8601 Specifies the date and time at which the bulk write job was initialized. resource JSON Object Contains the details about the module selected, the field mappings, and the ID of the file used for this job. status , string - The status of the bulk write job for that module. Example: "status": "ADDED", "IN PROGRESS", "COMPLETED", "SKIPPED", or "FAILED". type , string - The type of module that you have imported. The value is data . module string - The API name of the module that you have imported the records from. field_mappings , JSON object - Contains the following keys: api_name , string - The API name of the field present in the Zoho module object that you want to import into. find_by , string - The API name of the unique field or primary field(record ID) in the module. The system uses this API name to find the existing records in CRM. index , integer - The column index of the field you want to map to the CRM field. default_value JSON object - The default value with which the system replaces any partial or empty file column in the CSV file. file JSON Object Contains the following details about the import: status , string - The status of the bulk write job for that module. Example: "status": "ADDED", "IN PROGRESS", "COMPLETED", "SKIPPED", or "FAILED". name , string - The name of the CSV file which will get downloaded. module , string - The API name of the module that you have imported the records from. added_count , integer - The number of records added or imported. skipped_count , integer - The number of records skipped due to some issues. The Error column in the CSV file will have details about why the record was skipped during import. updated_count , integer - The number of records updated during bulk update. total_count , integer - The total number of records inserted, updated, or skipped during bulk import. Note To know about the Bulk Write API limits, go here . Possible Errors INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to request URL section above. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: Client does not have ZohoCRM.bulk.CREATE. Create a new client with valid scope. Refer to scope section above. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 Permission denied to read Resolution: The user does not have permission to get the details of a bulk write job. Contact your system administrator. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in Server. Contact support team. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to endpoints section above. AUTHORIZATION_FAILED HTTP 400 User does not have sufficient privilege to read. Resolution: The user does not have the permission to get the details of a bulk write job. Contact your system administrator. RESOURCE_NOT_FOUND HTTP 404 The requested resource doesn't exist. Resolution: The job ID specified is invalid. Specify a valid job ID. Sample response for job "Added" Copied { "status": "ADDED", "resource": [ { "status": "INPROGRESS", "code":"ADDED" "type": "data", "module": { "api_name": "Deals", "id": "3652397000000002181" } "field_mappings": [ { "api_name": "Deal_Name", "index": 1, "format": null, "find_by": null, "default_value": null }, { "api_name": "Stage", "index": 132, "format": null, "find_by": null, "default_value": null } ], "file": { "status": "INPROGRESS" } } ], "id": "1111

---

## Bulk Write API Limitations | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/bulk-write/limitations.html`

Bulk Write API Limitations | Zoho CRM API | V8 Limitations Zoho CRM allows you to import your organization's data into CRM. You can import data(in CSV format) to individual CRM modules. This API is asynchronous and the result is not available immediately. The result is available only in CSV file format, and compressed into a ZIP file. CSV File Limits Limits of Bulk Write APIs For modules such as Leads, Contacts, and custom modules, the zip file can have only one CSV file with a maximum size of 25MB. When the file size exceeds this limit, you must split the file and process it in multiple bulk jobs. In this case, when you zip more than one CSV file, the system throws an error. For modules that have subforms, line items, multi-select lookup, and multi-user lookup, you can zip multiple CSV files together. For example, if your Leads module has a subform, then Leads is the parent module and subform is the child module. So, you must prepare two CSV files and zip them together in a single ZIP file and import data. The Bulk API does not support any delimiter except for comma, semicolon(;), colon(:), and pipe(|). The system detects the delimiter automatically based on the header in file. You must include all required fields when you create a record. You can optionally include any other field for the module. To associate a lookup field's value, the column header in the CSV file should be field_api_name.parent_field_api_name For example, if you have an Account Name lookup field, which refers to an account record in the Contacts module, and you have an Account record's ID value in your file, the column header would be Account_Name.id . If you have an Account's Name in your file, then the header should be Account_Name.Account_Name . Here, the first Account_Name is the API name of the field 'Account Name' in the Contacts module and the second Account_Name is the API name of the field 'Account Name' in the Accounts module. The CSV file will have data as follows. Last_Name Phone Account_Name.id Kennedy 000-00-000 12345678 A CSV file can contain a maximum of 25000 records with 200 column headers. A file with records above this limit is considered as an improper file and leads to an error. For subforms - The CSV must contain the column header Parent_Id that holds the record IDs of the parent record of the subform. Limits of Bulk Write APIs You can upload only one zipped CSV file per bulk write request. This API does not support Attachments, Notes, upload file(fields), and record images. The following fields are not supported for bulk write operation: General fields - File Upload, Image Upload, Created By, Modified By, Created Time, Modified Time, Formula Fields, Auto Number, rollup summary, Aggregate field, Tags, and Campaigns integration. Module-specific fields - Leads - Last Activity Time Deals - Lead Conversion Time,Overall Sales Duration, Forecast Category, Sales Cycle Duration Unsupported Fields in "default_value" key : Multi-select Lookup, Multi-user Lookup, Multi-line, Unique Fields, Display Fields, and Parent ID This API does not support workflows. The number of bulk write jobs that you can initiate is based on the Zoho CRM edition and remaining credit limits on that day. A single bulk write job will decrease 500 credits from the daily limit irrespective of its state.

---

## Initiate Bulk Write Job | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/bulk-write/create-job.html`

Initiate Bulk Write Job | Zoho CRM API | V8 Create Bulk Write Job Purpose To create a bulk write job to import records into CRM. Endpoints POST /write Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/bulk/{version}/write Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.bulk.CREATE (or) scope=ZohoCRM.bulk.ALL (and) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.{operation_type} Possible module names leads, accounts, contacts, deals, campaigns, cases, solutions, products, vendors, pricebooks, tasks, quotes, salesorders, purchaseorders, invoices, and custom Possible operation types ALL - Full access to the record CREATE - Create a bulk write job Sample request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/bulk/v8/write" -X POST -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@inputData.json" Request JSON character_encoding String, optional Represents the charset of the uploaded file. It is usually auto-detected, but if specified, then it will be used to read the file. operation String, mandatory Represents the type of operation you want to perform on the bulk write job. Values are insert - To create CSV records as new records in CRM. update - To update an existing record in CRM(This operation does not allow creation of new records). upsert - To update an existing record in CRM and create new records, if they do not exist already. ignore_empty Boolean, optional True - Ignores the empty values in a column and updates only the fields of a record without empty values False or empty - The system updates records in CRM with empty values in the given file column. The default value is false . callback JSON Object, optional A valid URL that allows the HTTP POST method. The Bulk Write Job's details are posted to this URL on successful completion or failure of a job. Sample - "callback" : { "url": "https://sampledomain.com/getzohoresponse", "method": "post" }. This JSON Object takes two keys— url and method . url (string) - A valid URL, which should allow HTTP POST method. The Bulk Write Job's details are posted to this URL on successful completion or failure of a job. method (string) - The HTTP method of the callback url. The supported value is post . resource JSON array, mandatory A JSON array of objects containing the API names of modules that you want to import, their field mappings, and the corresponding file ID obtained from Upload API . type (string, mandatory) - Represents the type of module that you want to import. The value is data . module (JSON object, mandatory) - The API name of the module that you select for bulk write job. For subforms : When you want to bulk-write subform data, you must give the API name of the subform here. file_id (string, mandatory) - The file_id obtained from file upload API. find_by (string, mandatory for update and upsert, optional for insert) - The API name of a unique field or ID of a record. The system uses the value of this field to find the existing records in CRM. In an insert operation, if find_by is provided, the system will skip duplicate records from the file. field_mappings (JSON array, optional) - When the system processes a CSV file, the first row is treated as the header row. Each header name is treated as the field API name and data from a column are populated into the corresponding field represented by the API name. This parameter helps you to skip auto-mapping and define your own field mapping. Note : By default, field mappings are handled automatically. If you want to define your own, you can map the fields manually. If you include this array in the input, data in the CSV will be mapped based only on the index value in this array. The Layout field with its corresponding value must be provided in the field_mappings only if the module has more than one layout . If the module has only one layout , specifying the layout is not required . The record will automatically be processed using the available layout. For auto-field mapping , Zoho CRM maps CSV columns to fields based on the file headers. For all field types except lookup fields , the CSV header must exactly match the field’s API name. For lookup fields, the header must be specified in the following format: {lookup_field_API_name}.{field_API_name} Example: Accounts.id and Accounts.Email Multi-Module Lookup (MML), For auto-mapping , record association is supported only using the record ID . The CSV header must be in the following format: <field_API_name>.id Example: What_Id.id For manual field mapping in the request, If find_by is set to id , the module key is not required . If find_by is anything other than id such as Email, a unique field, or an org external field, the module key is mandatory . Example: { "api_name": "What_Id", "find_by": "Account_Name", "module": "Accounts", "index": 1 } api_name (string, mandatory) - The API name of the field present in Zoho module object that you want to import. Refer Fields M

---

