# PART 8 INTEGRATIONS SECURITY

*Auto-compiled from Zoho CRM official docs | 85 pages*

---

## Zoho CRM V8 APIs
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/`

Zoho CRM V8 APIs Zoho CRM V8 APIs Metadata APIs Fetch the metadata of modules, fields, layouts, custom views, and related lists. Core APIs Perform CRUD operations on CRM module entities and integrate with any third party application through flexible RESTful endpoints. Composite API Combine up to five API calls in a single request through this API. Bulk APIs Push and retrieve data from Zoho CRM in bulk using a set of asynchronous APIs. Notification APIs Get notified whenever a data change occurs inside your CRM. Query APIs Fetch records using the SELECT query(SQL syntax) from Zoho CRM.

---

## Web App Development | Online Help - Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/webapp-sdk/`

Web App Development | Online Help - Zoho CRM Hi, how can we help? Web Apps Development - An Overview Although a CRM provides a platform to run your business online, there are a lot of other avenues where your business might have to tread on. Some of them would be building a custom mobile or web application. Upon integration, the functionality of Zoho CRM is extended. Furthermore, since the application would be created by you or your techies, the experience of using it would be more than satisfactory. Web applications are a dynamic extension of a application on the internet. Zoho provides the tools for a developer to create a web application which enhances the usage experience of the app and the CRM to greater heights. The UI Components of a Web applications are created as a HTML and are run in browsers. This document takes you through the development of custom web applications designed for integration with Zoho CRM. It demonstrates how to create a simple web application, host it locally or deploy it to a server, and view it in a browser. Pros Easy development. Easier updates and maintenance. No downloads. No system requirements. Access the app from any place. Cons Runs only in the browsers. No offline operation. Target Audience CRM Administrators who set up Integrations and Extensions. Programmers with REST API and CLI skills.

---

## Developer Edition - Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/dev-edition.html`

Developer Edition - Zoho CRM Hi, how can we help? Developer Edition - Zoho CRM The Developer Edition of Zoho CRM is the ideal training ground for developers to play around with the CRM account and test robust CRM implementations, Zoho CRM-centric mobile and web apps, white-labelled Vertical CRMs and CRM extensions. Let's take the case of an organization that implements Zoho CRM for the first time. Not to mention the users, even developers need to use the product for a while to get the hang of it. For someone who's new to Zoho CRM, the new Developer Edition would fit the bill perfectly. The Developer edition is totally free and an added bonus is that it allows for a single Zoho account to have two CRMs, a normal one and a developer one. That way, you can get the Developer Edition for your production account or for any of your user's account. Hence, developers, who are new to CRM can design, build, implement, test, and maintain better software solutions after getting to know what Zoho CRM has to offer. Where to access it? Go to the Zoho Developers website to access the developer edition of Zoho CRM. Note Changes made in the Developer edition cannot be pushed to your production account directly. The Developer Edition is more similar to a trial version of the CRM, but there's no expiry for it. The Developer Edition is only for testing purposes and cannot be used as a regular CRM. Benefits You can have a Developer Edition in parallel with a regular CRM. In essence, two accounts for the same user. The changes made in the Developer edition will not affect the data in the regular CRM in any way. Perfect CRM for amateurs to understand the features of Zoho CRM better and come up with better solutions.

---

## Welcome to Zoho CRM&#039;s Documentation
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/help/`

Welcome to Zoho CRM&#039;s Documentation Hi, how can we help? Getting Started CRM Setup Using ZOHO CRM Integrations Developer Guide Introduction to Zoho CRM Get ready to explore our cloud based application designed to help you manage your customer relationship better with different easy-to-use features. Read more Specifications in Zoho CRM Learn about basic requirements, supported languages, and features offered in various editions of Zoho CRM. Read more Understand your CRM account Explore, learn, and understand the various modules and basic terminology in your CRM account. Read more Begin your Admin Journey Explore your responsibilities as an administrator and learn to manage your business with the help of different CRM features. Read more Organization Settings Add your personal and organization details such as, fiscal year, business hours, currencies and more. Read more Manage Users and Profiles Understand different user management activities such as creating roles, adding users, and setting profile permissions. Read more Customize CRM Account Personalize your account with powerful customization tools that allows businesses of all sizes to adopt quickly. Read More Data Administration Manage your data and maintain a clutter-free database with import, export, duplication management and view all the actions carried out using audit-logs. Read More Automate Business Processes Automate your business processes by setting up workflow rules, automated responses, and streamlining your sales activities. Read More Process Management Streamline your business by designing systematic process management systems using blueprint and approval processes to ensure nothing falls through the cracks. Read more Connect with Customers Connect and interact with your prospects intelligently through different channels such as social media, emails, telephony, and more. Read More GDPR and Zoho CRM Get guidance on how to secure customer data, and focus on making your business compliant with privacy regulations. Read More Sales Force Automation Manage your sales pipeline more effectively by using the various modules and features in Zoho CRM. Read more Marketing Automation Tools Plan, improve, and execute various marketing strategies with the help of automation tools. Read more Analytics and Dashboards Get real-time insights on your business performance and personalized key metrics on your day-to-day business activities. Read more Collaborate and Increase Team Productivity Connect and share data with peers using feeds, calendars etc. and make sales fun and competitive with gamescope. Read more Manage Inventory Procure products and carry out your accounting activities before and after pitching your sale. Read more Zia - Artificial Intelligence A powerful artificial intelligence that makes your work simple, efficient, and helps you deliver a personalized experience. Read more Manage your Data Learn how to manage your documents, attachments, notes. Monitor the storage utilized and your recycle bin. Read more CRM Mobile App A native CRM application that helps you work from anywhere and anytime, even when you are offline! Read more Zoho Integrate Zoho CRM with other Zoho Products and work under a single platform. Read more Microsoft Synchronize contacts and tasks from various Microsoft applications and manage them from your CRM account. Read more Google Integrate your Google account with CRM and use the features to collaborate, communicate, and share information with peers. Read more Zoho MCP Empower Zoho CRM with next-gen agentic automation. Configure an MCP server to enable AI agents to autonomously perform end-to-end tasks, removing repetitive manual steps across 950+ Zoho and third-party services. Read more APIs APIs denote a group of resources in CRM and operations that can be performed, to integrate any app with Zoho CRM. Read more Functions Formerly known as Custom Functions, this feature lets you program and execute custom actions in CRM, which are not natively provided. Read more Client Script Perform event-driven UI actions on the client-side using custom JavaScript code to suit your business needs. Zoho CRM’s client script includes a rich set of libraries that allow you to control the UI, execute the underneath Zoho CRM APIs, and the necessary serverless functions. Read more Widgets Build Widgets with embeddable UI components in the CRM and seamlessly integrate them with external applications. Read more Connections Invoke any third party applications’ REST APIs through Connections and get access to your authenticated data from your functions or widgets. Read more Developer Edition A complete edition of Zoho CRM for Developers to play around with. Get all of the features and figure out software solutions much more easily. Read more Mobile SDKs Equip yourself to design, build, test, use and maintain tailor-made, robust mobile applications for your Zoho CRM. Read more Server Side SDKs Make use of our SDKs to build personalized client-b

---

## Feature-wise comparison of Zoho CRM Editions | Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/help/feature-availability.html`

Feature-wise comparison of Zoho CRM Editions | Zoho CRM Help me choose the right paid plan Compare all features of Zoho CRM editions No features available Please type some text Help me choose the right paid plan Hide common features Free TRY NOW Standard TRY NOW Professional TRY NOW Enterprise TRY NOW Ultimate TRY NOW Expand all Collapse all Pricing (local taxes will be charged in addition to the prices mentioned.) Billed Annually Free for 3 users ₹ 800 /user/month ₹ 1400 /user/month ₹ 2400 /user/month ₹ 2600 /user/month Billed Monthly Free for 3 users ₹ 1,300 /user/month ₹ 2,100 /user/month ₹ 3,000 /user/month ₹ 3,200 /user/month Sales Force Automation Leads Accounts Contacts Deals Workqueue - Sales Forecasting - Forecasts Based on Territories - - - Macros - Feeds SalesSignals - - Document Library Activities (Tasks, Meetings, Calls) Reminders Task only Recurring Activities Calendar Booking - Multiple Currencies - 5 currencies 10 currencies 25 currencies 50 currencies Social (Integration with Facebook & X) - Social Tab (Facebook & X accounts of the Company) - Scoring Rules - 10 criteria/module (Calls channel only) 20 criteria/module 30 criteria/module 50 criteria/module Multiple Scoring Rule - - - 5 rules/layout (30 criteria/rule) 5 rules/layout (50 criteria/rule) Motivator for Zoho CRM - - My Jobs - CRM Analytics Standard Reports Custom Reports - 100 Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Schedule Reports - Maximum 100 schedules Maximum 100 schedules Maximum 100 schedules Maximum 200 schedules Standard Dashboards - Custom Dashboards - Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Charts and KPIs - Anomaly Detector - - - 10 trends Additional 1 trend/user license (max 50) 20 trends Additional 2 trends/user license (max 100) Zia Notification subscription for Anomaly Detector components - 10 components 10 components 10 components 30 components Comparator - 25 components 25 components Unlimited Unlimited Funnel - 25 components 25 components Unlimited Unlimited Quadrant Analysis - Zone - Target Meter - Cohort Analysis - 5 5 10 25 Stage Component - - - Waterfall Component - - - Marketing Automation Campaigns Mass Email This limit applies only to the org's sales activities. Kindly check Zoho Campaigns for campaigning purpose. Mass emails do not include workflow email notifications. - 250/day/org 500/day/org 1000/day/org 2000/day/org Custom Email Templates 10 templates 100 templates Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Email Opt-out Autoresponders - - - 3 autoresponders 5 autoresponders Schedule Mass Email - - 10/module 10/module 10/module Zia Data Enrichment - 500 records/user, maximum of 50,000 records 500 records/user, maximum of 50,000 records 500 records/user, maximum of 50,000 records 2000 records/user, maximum of 50,000 records Churn Prediction - - - 2/org 20/org Field Prediction - - 2/org 2/org 20/org Recommendation Builder - - 1/org 1/org 10/org Similarity Recommendation - - 1/org 1/org 10/org Zia Recommendations for CPQ - - Macro Suggestion - - Workflow Suggestion - - - Next Best Experience - - - (>10 users license) (>10 users license) Recommendation Analytics - - Best Time to Contact - - Best Time to Contact Analytics - - - (>20 users license) (>20 users license) Best Mode of Contact - - Email and Email Thread Summary - - Email Intent - - Email Custom Intent - - Email Activity Extraction - - Email Sentiment, CNS Consecutive Negative Sentiment - - Email Emotion - - Email Subject Suggestion - - Email - Sentence Auto Complete - - Email Translation - - Email Enrichment - - Call Summary - - Call Intent - - Call Sentiment - - Call Emotion - - Call Transcription - - Ask Zia Help, Actions, Insights - - Ask Zia (Old UI) - - Zia Module Creation - - Zia Workflow Creation - - Anomalies in Workflow Rule - - - Vision - Image Matching - - 1/org 1/org 20/org Vision - Image Detection - - 1/org 1/org 20/org Intelligent Character Recognition - - 2/org 3/org 5/org Zia Notifications - - Anomaly Notification - - An user can subscribe to 10 components An user can subscribe to 10 components An user can subscribe to 30 components Automatic Anomaly Notification Custom view and Stage based - - - Workflow Email Duplicate Alert - - - Competitor Alert - - Record Owner Suggestion - - - Zia for Forecasts - - Anomaly Detector - - - 10 trends Additional 1 trend/user license (max 50) 10 trends Additional 1 trend/user license (max 50) Dashboard Component Suggestion - - - (>20 users license) (>20 users license) Zia Scores - - 5/org 5/org 10/org Voice of the Customer - - Strategy Influencer - - 6/org 6/org 6/org Zia Presentation - - Prediction Analytics - - Smart Prompt (ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude, Cohere) - - Smart Prompt (DeepSeek, SiliconFlow) - - Smart Prompt (Zia) - - Notes Summary - - Record Summary - - Conversation Summary - - Duplicate Image Detection - - (>20 users license) (>20 users license) (>20 users license) Zia Writing Assistant - - Custom AI Studio - Prompt Builder in Custom Button - - - Image to Canvas - Formula Expression Generator - - Zia Agents -

---

## Integration Tasks | Online Help - Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/functions/integration-tasks.html`

Integration Tasks | Online Help - Zoho CRM Hi, how can we help? Functions - Integration Tasks Getting Started Get Records Get Record by ID Create Records Creating Bulk Records Update Records Search Records Get Related Records Update Related Records Convert Lead Invoke URL As you might already know, the update to Version 2.0 APIs played a major part in using custom functions, now named "Functions". This guide will help you use functions integration tasks that are based on the new APIs. Getting Started For starters, the basic difference between Version 1.0 and 2.0 of Zoho APIs is that Field Names are used in the former and API Names are used in the latter. To get the API Names of modules, Go to Setup > Developer Hub > APIs and SDKs > CRM API > API Names . The API Names of the modules are listed in the API Names tab. To get the API Names of fields in modules, Go to Setup > Developer Hub > APIs and SDKs > CRM API > API Names . Click on a module name. For example: Leads The API Names tab contains the API Names of fields. These fields are to be used in the code and NOT the names in the Field Label tab. Get Records Records, containing information, can be fetched from multiple supported modules of CRM. You can get the records using the zoho.crm.getRecords() task. Syntax: (using Version 2.0 APIs) <response>= zoho.crm.getRecords (<module_name>, [<page>],[<perPage>], {<optionalDataMap>}, <connections>); Params Description <response> The response with the LIST of records matching the fetch criteria. <module_name> The name of the module from which the record has to be fetched. Supported modules are Leads, Deals, Products, Contacts, Campaigns, Vendors, Accounts, Cases, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices and Custom. <page> (optional) To get the list of records based on pages. It is of the NUMBER datatype. Default - 1. <perPage> (optional) Used to get the list of records available per page. It is of the NUMBER datatype. Default - 200. <optionalDataMap> Used to get the list of records using params other than page and per_page. <connections> Displays the connectors associated with the function. Datatype is STRING . Sample Input: resp = zoho.crm.getRecords("Leads",1,20,{"converted":"true"}); Note: In the above sample, " converted " is an optionalDataMap . Get Record by ID Getting a list of records is quite good, but what if you want to fetch details about a specific record. You can use the zoho.crm.getRecordById() task, to get the information about a particular record. Syntax: (Using Version 2.0 APIs) <response>= zoho.crm.getRecordById (<module_name>, <record_ID>, <connections>); Params Description <response> The response which is returned as a MAP . <module_name> The name of the module from which the record has to be fetched. Supported modules are: Leads, Deals, Products, Contacts, Campaigns, Vendors, Accounts, Cases, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices and Custom. <record_ID> The ID of the record to be fetched. It is of NUMBER datatype. <connections> Displays the connectors associated with the function. Datatype is STRING . Sample Input: resp = zoho.crm.getRecordById("Leads", 2938383000000392001); Create a record Set up the functions in a way that records are automatically created based on certain actions. For ex: you can trigger the function to create a record in tasks upon changing the status of a lead. The zoho.crm.create() task is used to create records. Syntax: (Using Version 2.0 APIs) <variable>= zoho.crm.create (<module_name>,{<dataMap>}, {<optionalDataMap>}, <connections>); Params Description <response> The response which is returned as a MAP . <module_name> The name of the module from which the record has to be fetched. Supported modules are: Leads, Deals, Products, Contacts, Campaigns, Vendors, Accounts, Cases, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices and Custom. <dataMap> The name of the fields in the module which are to be specified during creation of the record. For ex: {"Last_name":"Zoho CRM"} <optionalDataMap> Represents all the data maps other than input JSON. <connections> Displays the connectors associated with the function. Datatype is STRING . Sample Input: data = Map(); data.putAll({"Last_Name":"Bruce Wills", "Company":"Zylker"}); optionalMap = Map(); optionalMap.put("trigger", ["workflow","approval", "blueprint", "pathfinder", "orchestration"]); // pass "trigger" as empty [] to not execute workflow resp = zoho.crm.create("Leads", data, optionalMap); Sample Response: {"Modified_Time":"2018-03-26T14:33:01+05:30","Modified_By":{"name":"Ben","id":"2938383000000132011"},"Created_Time":"2018-03-26T14:33:01+05:30","id":"2938383000000389001","Created_By":{"name":"Ben","id":"2938383000000132011"}} Create bulk records Set up the functions in a way that records are automatically created based on certain actions. For ex: you can trigger the function to create multiple records, in contacts, accounts, tasks, deals, etc, upon changing the converting a lead to a contact. The zoho.crm.bu

---

## Get Modules API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/modules-api.html`

Get Modules API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Modules API Zoho CRM includes standard modules such as Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Forecasts, and Activities, along with custom modules. Using Zoho CRM REST API, you can retrieve the list of available modules through the Get List of Modules API. Get List of Modules Purpose To retrieve the list of all the modules available in your Zoho CRM account. Endpoints GET /settings/modules Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/modules Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.settings.modules.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full data access READ - Get module data Note Refer to the key api_name in the JSON data while accessing the resource. Every module, field, and related list will have an API name, which you can use in the third-party integrations. For example, if you want to access the Leads module, use “Leads" which is the api_name every time you access the resource. The Zoho CRM generates an API name internally while creating a custom module, custom field, or related list label. Please note that you cannot alter the API Names for the default modules, fields, and related list. You can change the API names only for custom modules, fields, and related lists. The generated API name can contain only alphabets, numbers, and underscores. The API name should start with an alphabet and should not have two consecutive underscores or end with an underscore. For the Events module, The singular_label and plural_label will be Meeting and Meetings , respectively. The module_name will be Meetings . The api_name will remain Events . The modules removed from Organize will also be fetched in the response. Use the profiles key in the response to know the profiles that have permission to view a particular module. When a new File Upload or Image Upload field is added to a module, the system creates a separate module for these fields. The response of Get Modules API returns the details of these modules too. It retrieves all available standard , subform , linking (MxN) , and custom modules in your organization. Parameters status string, optional The status parameter can be used to retrieve specific types of modules. Possible values: user_hidden - Modules that are hidden from the user. system_hidden - Modules that are hidden by the system. scheduled_for_deletion - Modules that are scheduled to be deleted. visible - Modules that are visible to the user. For example, status = user_hidden,system_hidden can be used to retrieve all modules that are hidden to user and system. Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/modules" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.03xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxa5317.dxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxfa" Copied response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/modules" type: GET connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; Response JSON deletable Boolean Describes if the user can delete a record in the current module. Possible values: true: The user can delete a record in the current module. false: The user cannot delete a record in the current module. description string Represents the description of the module, if any. creatable Boolean Represents if the user can create records in the current module. Possible values: true: The user can create records in the current module. false: The user cannot create records in the current module. modified_time date and time in ISO8601 format Represents the date and time of when the module properties were last modified. plural_label string Represents the plural form of the module name. For example: Leads. singular_label string Represents the singular form of the module name. For example: Lead. has_more_profiles Boolean Represents whether more profiles have access to the module. By default, the Module Metadata API lists up to 50 profiles in the "profiles" key. If there are more than 50 profiles, this value will be true; if there are 50 or fewer, it will be false. access_type string Specifies the module's access type. Possible values: org_based - Default setting, allowing access at an organizational level. team_based - Access is restricted to team-level permissions (if the Team Space feature is enabled). private_profile JSON array Represents the profiles available in the Teams module you have created. recycle_bin_on_delete Boolean Represents whether records in the module can be moved to the recycle bin upon deletion. web_link string This key is related to web tabs, which are treated as modules. Web tabs can be created from either of the two sources: Links or Widgets. The value of this key will be the URL of the web tab (in the case of Links) or the widget's URL (in the case of Widgets). presence_sub_menu Boolean Represents if the module has a submenu. For instance, Tasks in Calls module is a submenu. Possible values: true: The current module has a submenu. false: The current m

---

## Territories API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/territories.html`

Territories API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Territories API Territory management helps you segregate your Zoho CRM records based on customer attributes such as geography, company size, or industry. This makes it easy to share the relevant records with the right members of your sales team. Territory management allows you to automatically associate Accounts, Contacts, and Deals with territories to maximize revenue. Note Users with Administrator profile can enable this feature in the Zoho CRM UI. Key Benefits Avoid complex data-sharing structure - Organizations with complex sales structures can use territories to easily share records with users in different teams. It is also convenient to group records based on the account's characteristics rather than the individual ownership of the records. Provide a focused work environment - Distribution of customer accounts by using territories help in creating focused work environments that ensures better sales force engagement. It also increases the sales teams' efficiency by reducing the travel time and increasing the industry expertise. Get an accurate evaluation of the sales team's performance - Generate sales reports based on territories to evaluate and measure the efficiency of sales teams by territory. Also, get a better insight into the sales contribution of each territory. Forecast sales for each territory and set clear goals - Create separate forecast targets for each territory a user belongs to. This will give a clear picture of the goals set for the different territories for users to stay focused. Refer to Use Territories to learn more about territory management. Territories API Purpose To get the list of territories enabled for your Zoho CRM organization. Endpoints GET /settings/territories Copy full URL GET /settings/territories/{territory_ID} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To retrieve all territories: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories To get a specific territories: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories/{territory_ID} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.territories.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to territories data READ - Read territories data Parameters filters Filters parameter can be used to retrieve the territories details that you are searching for. For example, ?filters={"field": {"api_name" : "manager.id"},"value":"431581000000278001" ,"comparator": "equal"} This can be used to find the territories whose manager is J Smith (whose user id is 431581000000278001 ) Note Encode the value of the filters parameter before sending a request. Keys reporting_to.id, manager.id, id, permission_type, created_by, modified_by Comparators equal, not_equal Key name Comparators equal, not_equal, ends_with, starts_with, contains, not_contains Keys created_time, modified_time Comparators less_equal, between, greater_than, less_than, equal ids integer, optional Represents the unique ID of the territory to retrieve. page integer, optional To get the list of records from the respective pages. Default value for page is 1 . Possible values: Positive Integer values only. per_page integer, optional To get the list of records available per page. The default and the maximum possible value is 2000 . Possible values: Positive Integer values only. include string, optional Represents the criteria rule applied in the territories, if any. lead_rule_criteria : To retrieve the criteria rule used in the Leads module. account_rule_criteria : To retrieve the criteria rule used in the Accounts module. deal_rule_criteria : To retrieve the criteria rule used in the Deals module. include_inner_details string, optional This parameter is used retrieve additional details regarding the territory's manager. Use this parameter with the value manager.zuid and manager.status to get the manager's ZUID and manager's status respectively in the response. Note To fetch records from a territory-supported module, use the parameters "territory_id" and "include_child" in the request. Refer to Get List of Records for more details. Sample Request Curl Deluge Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/territories?include_inner_details=manager.zuid,manager.status" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -X GET Copied response = invokeurl [ url: "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/territories" type: GET connection:"crm_oauth_connection" ]; info response; Response JSON Keys created_time string Represents the date and time at which the current territory was created. manager JSON object Represents the name and ID of the current territory's manager. account_rule_criteria JSON Object Represents the criteria for account module territory rules(comparator,field and value) description string Represents the description of the territory, if any. lead_rule_criteria JSON Object Represents the criteria for lead module territory rules(comparator,field and value) rep

---

## HIPAA Compliance | Online Help - Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/hipaa-compliance.html`

HIPAA Compliance | Online Help - Zoho CRM HIPAA Compliance HIPAA, the Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, is a US federal law initiated in 1996 to ensure protection of an individual's Personal Health Information (PHI) . As more healthcare organizations have started to use CRM to run their business smoothly and store customer information in a shared database, it is crucial that they can ensure the confidentiality of an individual's health information. In Zoho CRM, we provide ways for healthcare organizations to secure and restrict export of individuals' health information and stay compliant with the HIPAA guidelines. Organization API The key hipaa_compliance_enabled in Organization API represents if HIPAA compliance is enabled for the organization.. The data type of this field is boolean, i.e true/false. This key is also retrieved in Fields Metadata and Layouts Metadata API, which represents if the field or layout stores personal health data or not. Sample Request: To get Organization Data Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/org" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Note: If hipaa_compliance_enabled=true , HIPAA Compliance is enabled for the Org. If hipaa_compliance_enabled=false , HIPAA Compliance is disabled. Sample Response Copied { "org": [ { "country": "US", "photo_id": null, "city": null, "description": null, "mc_status": true, "gapps_enabled": false, "domain_name": "org55528254", "translation_enabled": false, "street": null, "alias": null, "currency": "Indian Rupee", "id": "111111000000033001", "state": null, "fax": null, "employee_count": null, "zip": null, "website": "www.zylker.com", "currency_symbol": "₹", "mobile": null, "currency_locale": "en_IN", "primary_zuid": "55528367", "zia_portal_id": "59075125", "time_zone": "Asia/Calcutta", "zgid": "55528254", "country_code": "IN", "license_details": { "paid_expiry": null, "users_license_purchased": 3, "trial_type": "professional", "trial_expiry": "2018-05-17T17:20:05+05:30", "paid": false, "paid_type": "free" }, "phone": "7867984524", "company_name": "Zylker", "privacy_settings": true, "primary_email": "p.boyle@zylker.com", "hipaa_compliance_enabled": true, "iso_code": "INR" } ] } Fields Metadata API The field hipaa_compliance is a JSON object that represents whether Contains Personal Health Data option is enabled for a particular field. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/fields?module=Contacts" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" The boolean keys in the JSON object: restricted_in_export : Represents if the data export is restricted for the field. The value is true if Restrict Data in Export option is enabled in the HIPAA compliance settings. restricted : Represents if the field can be accessed via API. The value is true if Restrict Data access through API option is enabled in the HIPAA compliance settings. This key is retrieved in Layouts Metadata API as well. Sample Response Copied { "system_mandatory": false, "private": null, "webhook": true, "json_type": "string", "crypt": null, "field_label": "Status", "tooltip": null, "created_source": "default", "field_read_only": false, "display_label": "Status", "ui_type": 1, "read_only": false, "association_details": null, "businesscard_supported": false, "currency": {}, "id": "492070000007480002", "custom_field": true, "lookup": {}, "hipaa_compliance": { "restricted_in_export": true, "restricted": false }, "visible": true, "length": 255, "view_type": { "view": true, "edit": true, "quick_create": false, "create": true }, "subform": null, "external": null, "api_name": "Status", "unique": {}, "history_tracking": false, "data_type": "text", "formula": {}, "hipaa_compliance_enabled": true, "decimal_place": null, "mass_update": true, "multiselectlookup": {}, "pick_list_values": [], "auto_number": {} } Get Records API The value for the fields with sensitive health data will be retrieved only when Restrict Data access through API option in the compliance settings is disabled . If the option is enabled, the value for the HIPAA compliance field will be null . Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Contacts/492070000007480017" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" The same applies to Get Specific Record API , Get Related Records API , Search Records API , and Get Records through a COQL query . Sample Response Copied { "data": [ { "Owner": { "name": "Patricia Boyle", "id": "492070000000209017", "email": "patricia.b@zohocorp.com" }, "Email": null, "$currency_symbol": "AR$", "Visitor_Score": null, "Other_Phone": null, "Field_With_Health_Data": "*Sensitive Health Data*", "Mailing_State": null, "Other_State": null, "$followers": null, "Other_Country": null, "Last_Activity_Time": null, "Department": null, "$state": "save", "Unsubscribed_Mode": null, "$process_flow": false, "As

---

## Get Rich Text Fields | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-rich-text-fields.html`

Get Rich Text Fields | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get Rich Text Fields Rich Text Fields allow users to input formatted text up to 50,000 characters , including HTML elements. It is ideal for entries requiring styling and organization, such as product descriptions or client communications. Purpose To retrieve the rich text fields of a specific record or multiple records along with their contents. Endpoints GET /{module_api_name}/{record_id}/actions/fetch_full_data Copy full URL GET /{module_api_name}/{record_id}/actions/fetch_full_data?fields={rich_text_field_1},{rich_text_field_2},... Copy full URL GET /{module_api_name}/actions/fetch_full_data?ids={record_id_1},{record_id_2},{record_id_3}...&fields={rich_text_field_1},{rich_text_field_2},... Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To retrieve get rich text fields for multiple records: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name}/actions/fetch_full_data?ids={record_id_1},{record_id_2},{record_id_3}...&fields={rich_text_field_1},{rich_text_field_2},... To retrieve get rich text fields for a specific record: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_api_name}/{record_id}/actions/fetch_full_data Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.modules.{module_name}.READ Parameter ids string, mandatory when retrieving rich text fields of multiple records Specify the unique IDs of records whose rich text fields' values you want to retrieve. You can specify upto 200 record ids. fields string, mandatory when retrieving rich text fields of multiple records Specify the API names of the rich text fields whose values you want to retrieve. If you skip this parameter when fetching rich text field of a specific record, all rich text fields of the record will be retrieved. Notes This API exclusively fetches rich text fields and their data . Retrieval of any other field types is not supported . You can retrieve only the data from the rich text multi-line field . Retrieving multi-line fields with other types, such as small and large , is not supported . Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/111112000000070427/actions/fetch_full_data" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Response JSON Keys id string It represents the ID of the record. {rich_text_field_api_name} string Contains the value for the specific rich text field. Please note that this key will differ depending on the API names of the rich text fields in your module. Sample Response Copied { "data": [ { "Multi_Line_RTF1": "<span style=\"background-color:rgb(255, 255, 0)\"><b><i>Zoho CRM</i></b></span> can be easily customized to meet the specific needs of any business type and size. Modern CRM systems such as Zoho CRM are used by <b>start-ups, large enterprises, and verticals like real-estate, healthcare, insurance, legal, media, restaurants, travel, banking, tax, freelancers, and non-profits to increase their sales, marketing, and customer support efforts</b>.", "Multi_Line_RTF2": "<span style=\"background-color:rgb(255, 255, 0)\"><b><i>Zoho CRM</i></b></span> can be easily customized to meet the specific needs of any business type and size. Modern CRM systems such as Zoho CRM are used by <b>start-ups, large enterprises, and verticals like real-estate, healthcare, insurance, legal, media, restaurants, travel, banking, tax, freelancers, and non-profits to increase their sales, marketing, and customer support efforts</b>.", "id": "111112000000070427" } ] } Possible Errors REQUIRED_PARAM_MISSING HTTP 400 One of the expected parameter is missing Resolution: The fields parameter and ids parameter are mandatory while retrieving rich text fields of multiple records. UNABLE_TO_PARSE_DATA_TYPE HTTP 400 Either the request body or parameters is in wrong format Resolution: Pass the request body and parameters in correct format. INVALID_REQUEST HTTP 400 unable to process your request. please verify whether you have entered proper method name, parameter and parameter values. This error can occur in these cases While retrieving rich text fields for multiple records if more that 200 record ids are passed in the parameter. While retrieving rich text fields for multiple records, if more than 8 field APIs is passed in param. Resolution: While retrieving rich text fields for multiple records,do not pass more that 200 record ids are passed in the parameter. While retrieving rich text fields for multiple records, do not pass more than 8 field APIs is passed in param. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The ID of the record given seems to be invalid Resolution: Specify a valid record ID. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: The client does not have a valid scope to fetch the rich text field values. Generate a new token with valid scope. Refer to scope section above. AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE HTTP 401 Authentication failed Resolution: Pass the access token in the request header of the API call. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 4

---

## Discover the right Zoho CRM plan | Zoho CRM Edition Selector Quiz
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/edition-selector-quiz-zoho-crm.html?source_from=crm-feature-list`

Discover the right Zoho CRM plan | Zoho CRM Edition Selector Quiz Discover the right Zoho CRM plan Not sure which CRM edition to select or which features suit your business? We've made it easy for you. Introducing Edition Selector! Take our Edition Selector quiz and select the CRM features that your business needs. Based on your inputs, we'll recommend the edition that suits you best so you can make the best purchase decision. Start Quiz How does the quiz work? 1. We'll assess your needs across various functional areas, like sales force automation, process management, CRM analytics, and more. 2. Within each area, we'll ask you to select specific features you're interested in. 3. After you submit the quiz, you'll see instant results, along with a suggested edition. Note: Everyone's requirements are unique, and we get that not all features are equally important to you. If you see a feature you're not sure about or one that simply isn't high on your priority list, select "Maybe" and we'll take that into account! What are you looking for? Sales force automation: Enables you to manage leads, accounts, contacts, and deals, in addition to providing workflows to automate all routine tasks. Also includes features like sales forecasts, multi-currency selling, user-dedicated portals, and more. CRM customization: Provides no-code tools that enable you to customize modules, fields, layouts, and sales pipelines. Also includes key features like sandbox environments for testing and deploying bug-free customizations. Marketing automation: Helps you manage and measure campaigns with automated follow-ups, mass mailing, and Google Ad integration. Additional helpful features are behavioral segmentation and marketing attribution. Webforms: Capture high-quality lead information with customizable forms. Advanced features include webform analytics and A/B testing. Reports and analytics: Includes customizable sales dashboards, performance analytics, and advanced KPIs, along with business anomaly detection. Email management: Starting from IMAP integration, you can prevent emails from landing in spam folders, auto-extract lead information from emails, and much more. Data security and compliance: Secure your CRM with data encryption, two-factor authentication, IP restriction, and more. Stay compliant with GDPR or HIPAA standards as needed. Sales process management: Ensure everyone in your team follows a standard sales process, set up rules for data approvals and reviews, build personalized customer journeys, and much more. AI sales assistant: Zia, Zoho's AI assistant, fetches sales data, generates reports upon voice command, provides upcoming forecasts, detects business anomalies, and more. You can also get competitor alerts and recommendations on the best products to sell your customers. Developer space access: Helps you build and deploy your own version of CRM with APIs, mobile SDKs, web SDKs, and other developer tools. Inventory management: Generate quotes, invoices, and sales and purchase orders. Manage your products, vendors and define price books to manage fixed and variable product pricing. Marketplace extensions and integrations: Easily integrate with platforms like Google, Microsoft, Slack, and Zoho's own suite of products, along with access to over 750 third-party extensions. Continue quiz Edit Categories Are you looking to automate your business sales process? Yes Maybe No Please scroll through the options in your right pane to select features please finish selecting features Next Question FEATURE LIST * Zoho CRM offers the following sales force automation features across all paid editions: Set up cadences to automate and streamline lead follow-up sequences in one place without creating multiple workflows Manage your sales cycle with leads, accounts, contacts, and deals Activities to manage daily tasks, calls, and meetings Calendar bookings to schedule meetings and calls Feeds for team collaborations and discussions Social profiles to manage customers' social media interactions Reminders Standard scoring rules to qualify your prospects Automatic field updates Workflow rules to execute condition-based actions Automated record stage conversions Actions by Zoho Flow help you easily automate actions in third-party applications or Zoho apps via workflows—without writing a single line of code Automated record creation and ownership Since you've selected 'No', these features are not applicable to you Please select features that will likely help your organization: Territory-based sales forecasting Yes Maybe No Macros to execute multiple routine tasks in one go Yes Maybe No SalesSignals to keep track of customer interactions across various channels Yes Maybe No Motivator to gamify your sales process Yes Maybe No Assignment rules to automatically distribute records among CRM users Yes Maybe No Portals to grant external users access to relevant information in your CRM Yes Maybe No Use multiple scoring rules to assess your leads differe

---

## Limits - API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/api-limits.html`

Limits - API | Zoho CRM API | V8 API Limits Table of Contents Credit System How Integration Tasks Consume API Credits Increase API Credits Concurrency Limit Sub-concurrency Limit Concurrency in Integration Tasks Credit System API Usage in Zoho CRM is calculated based on credits .The credits are deducted from your credit count , based on the type of the API call that you make. Credit deduction is based upon the intensiveness of the performance, and the memory usage of the operations involved in the API calls. Each API call made will result in a reduction of 1 credit. However, for some APIs, credit reduction would be different. For example, for a "Convert Lead API", 5 credits will be reduced for a single API call. Refer to the table below for more details. Maximum credit limit in a 24-hour window for various editions of Zoho CRM Edition Allowed Credits Maximum Credits Free Edition 5000 credits 5000 credits Standard/Starter Edition 50,000 credits + (Number of User licenses x 250) + Add-on credits 100,000 credits Professional 50,000 credits + (Number of User licenses x 500) + Add-on credits 3,000,000 credits Enterprise/Zoho One 50,000 credits + (Number of User licenses x 1000) + Add-on credits 5,000,000 credits Ultimate/CRM Plus 50,000 credits + (Number of User licenses x 2000) + Add-on credits Unlimited Here is a calculator to know the available credit limits based on your edition and the number of users. Edition: Free Standard/Starter Professional Enterprise/ZohoOne Ultimate/CRM Plus Purchased Users Count: With the purchase of 100 users for Enterprise/ZohoOne edition, the available API Credits are 115,000 Note: For example, in the Standard edition, if there are 10 user licenses in an organization, the available credits will be 52,500 (i.e, 50,000 + (10 x 250)). However, the maximum limit for this edition will still be 100,000 credits irrespective of the number of user licenses. For all editions, factors such as concurrency and sub-concurrency are placed to protect the service from overload. This will impact the total number of API calls we process in the 24-hour rolling window. Once your API credit usage consumes 50% or above of the daily available credit limit(credits excluding additional paid credits), the remaining credits (including add-on credits) will be present in the header X-API-CREDITS-REMAINING in the API response. The API credit limits for trial editions are the same as those of their corresponding paid editions . For example, the Enterprise trial edition follows the same API limits as the Enterprise paid edition. For more information, refer to the feature-wise allowed limits of Zoho CRM editions. The credit deduction for some of the API operations are listed below. API Call Number of Credits Deducted Get Users / Roles / Profiles 1 Get list of Modules 1 Get Field Meta Data 1 Get Module Meta Data 1 Composite request 1 Get Records through a COQL query LIMIT between 1-200 - 1 API credit LIMIT between 201-1000 - 2 API credits LIMIT between 1001-2000 - 3 API credits Get IDs of deleted records 2 Get Related Records Count of a Record 2 for fetching the record count of one related list Get records with cvid parameter 3 Convert Lead 5 Download Mail Merge 5 Add / Remove Tags to Multiple records 1 credit for every 50 records Insert / Update / Upsert 1 credit for every 10 records Send Mail 20 Merge Records 50 Mass Change Owner 50 Update / Delete / Replace Global Picklist 50 Bulk Read Initialize 50 Record Count in a Module 50 Mass Delete using CVID 50 Associate Users with Territory 50 Disassociate Users from Territory 50 Mass Delete using "ids" 1 credit for every 100 records Mass Convert Leads 200 Bulk Write Initialize 500 Add Territories 50 credits per territory(max 500 credits, 10 territories per API call) Update Territories 50 credits per territory(max 500 credits, 10 territories per API call) Delete Territories 50 credits per territory(max 500 credits, 10 territories per API call) Transfer and Delete Territories 50 credits per territory(max 500 credits, 10 territories per API call) Create Custom Field 10 credits per field creation (In Bulk APIs, the credit cost equals the number of fields created multiplied by 10) Update Custom Field 10 credits per field update (In Bulk APIs, the credit cost equals the number of fields updated multiplied by 10) Delete Custom Field 10 credits per field deletion (In Bulk APIs, the credit cost equals the number of fields deleted multiplied by 10) Transfer Records and Delete User 500 Create Custom Module 500 Update Custom Module 5 Get Calls Preference 1 Update Calls Preference 1 Get Rich Text Field 1 Create Data Sharing Rule 250 Update Data Sharing Rule 250 Update Data Sharing Rule per ID 250 Delete Data Sharing Rule 250 Get Data Sharing Rules 10 Get Data Sharing Rule per ID 1 Get Data Sharing Settings 10 Update Default Organization Permissions 1 All other APIs 1 Note You can Insert/Update/Upsert a maximum of 100 records per API call, and Add/Remove Tags from a maximum of 500 

---

## Enable app for iOS | Online Help - Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/help/developer/mobile-sdk/ios-enable.html`

Enable app for iOS | Online Help - Zoho CRM iOS App Certification In order to send push notifications and other communications to iOS devices, an APNs certificate is required. APNs certificate can be created by downloading the Certificate Signing Request(CSR) signed by Zoho and uploading it on the Apple portal, which in turn provides the APNs certificate. Enabling iOS applications To certify iOS applications Go to Setup > Developer Space > MobileApps . Click Upload New App . In the Upload app page, click the " Enable iOS " slider. Click Create Now . In the Create and Sign CSR page, download the Vendor Signed CSR. Log in to the Apple Push Notification portal using your Apple ID. Click Create a Certificate . Upload the Vendor Signed CSR . Download the APN's certification provided by Apple. Go back to CRM and upload the APN certification. Enter your Apple ID and an email for notification. Click Upload . The APN Certificate will be displayed. Click the back button to go to the Upload app screen. ​The iOS radio button should now be enabled. Once the APN certification is done, you can proceed with the uploading and sharing of the iOS application.

---

## Create Custom Field API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/create-custom-field.html`

Create Custom Field API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Create Custom Fields Purpose To create custom fields in a module in your Zoho CRM account. Endpoints POST /settings/fields?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL {module_API_name} : API name of the module in which you are going to create custom fields. Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/fields Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.fields.CREATE (or) ZohoCRM.settings.fields.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.settings.ALL Parameters module string, mandatory Specify the module in which you want to create custom fields. Use the GET - Modules API to retrieve modules API names and IDs. Supported modules: Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Campaigns, Cases, Invoices, Deals, Price Books, Products, Purchase Orders, Quotes, Sales Orders, Solutions, Vendors, Calls, Tasks, Events, Users, DealHistory, QuotedItems, OrderedItems, PurchaseItems, InvoicedItems, Visits, Services, Appointments, and Custom. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/fields?module=Leads" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@input.json" -X POST Input JSON field_label string, mandatory It represents the unique display label of the field. data_type string, mandatory It represents the data type of the field. See Field Types: Data Types and Length Limits for more information on the available data types. layout_associations JSON array, optional Specify the list of layout IDs where the field should be added. If this key is not provided, the field will be created in the Standard layout by default and will appear under Unused Items in all other layouts. If it is provided, the field will be created only in the specified layouts, and will appear under Unused Items in every other existing layout. length integer, optional It represents the maximum number of characters allowed for a field. Certain fields have specific character limits. See Field Types: Data Types and Length Limits for more information. tooltip JSON object, optional Represents the tooltip content for the field. Possible names: static_text : Specifies that the field should have a static text tootltip. The tooltip content will be displayed in the field when the user clicks on the field box. info_icon : Specifies that the field should have an info icon tooltip. Clicking on the "info icon" will display the tooltip contents. Note that it is mandatory to specify both the name and value when you specify tootltip key. profiles JSON array, optional Each object in the array represents the name and ID of the profile that has access to the field. By default, all organization users will have access to the field. Possible permission types: read_write, read_only, and hidden. read_write: The user has read and write permissions for the field. read_only: The user has only read permission for the field. hidden: The field is not visible to the user. Note that it is mandatory to specify a permission type to the profiles in order to access the field. filterable Boolean, optional Represents whether the created field is supported in filters or not. By default, its value is true. The filterable key is supported for all data types except imageupload , fileupload , textarea , and formula when its return_type is text . unique JSON object, optional It specifies whether to mark the field as a unique field or not. The accepted value for case_sensitive is false. hipaa_compliance_enabled Boolean, optional This key helps you decide how you want to manage and process health related data of your customers to comply with HIPAA. To use this key, please enable it through the UI. For that, Go to Setup > Security Control > Compliance Setting > HIPAA Compliance . Note: The hipaa_compliance_enabled key supports all field data types . private JSON object, optional This key decide how you want to handle, manage, and process personal data of your customers to comply with GDPR for your organization. To use this key, please enable it through the UI. For that, Go to Setup > Security Control > Compliance Setting > GDPR Compliance . Note: The private key supports all field data types . Possible values for the type : Low and High . crypt JSON object, optional Represents whether to store the field's value in encrypted form or not. The possible values are: decryption - The field's value will not be stored in encrypted form. The default value is decryption . encryption - The field's value will be stored in encrypted form. This is supported for the following data types : text, textarea, email, phone, date, datetime, integer, currency, bigint, double, and website. Field Types: Data Types and Length Limits The table below presents a list of field types, their corresponding data types, and the associated length limits: Field Type Field Data Type (Example: "data_type": "text") Number of characters allowed for a field ( Example: "length": 150) Text text 1 to 255 Text Area textarea 

---

## Feature-wise comparison of Zoho CRM Editions | Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/help/complete-feature-list.html?source_from=edition-selection`

Feature-wise comparison of Zoho CRM Editions | Zoho CRM Help me choose the right paid plan Compare all features of Zoho CRM editions No features available Please type some text Help me choose the right paid plan Hide common features Free TRY NOW Standard TRY NOW Professional TRY NOW Enterprise TRY NOW Ultimate TRY NOW Expand all Collapse all Pricing (local taxes will be charged in addition to the prices mentioned.) Billed Annually Free for 3 users ₹ 800 /user/month ₹ 1400 /user/month ₹ 2400 /user/month ₹ 2600 /user/month Billed Monthly Free for 3 users ₹ 1,300 /user/month ₹ 2,100 /user/month ₹ 3,000 /user/month ₹ 3,200 /user/month Sales Force Automation Leads Accounts Contacts Deals Workqueue - Sales Forecasting - Forecasts Based on Territories - - - Macros - Feeds SalesSignals - - Document Library Activities (Tasks, Meetings, Calls) Reminders Task only Recurring Activities Calendar Booking - Multiple Currencies - 5 currencies 10 currencies 25 currencies 50 currencies Social (Integration with Facebook & X) - Social Tab (Facebook & X accounts of the Company) - Scoring Rules - 10 criteria/module (Calls channel only) 20 criteria/module 30 criteria/module 50 criteria/module Multiple Scoring Rule - - - 5 rules/layout (30 criteria/rule) 5 rules/layout (50 criteria/rule) Motivator for Zoho CRM - - My Jobs - CRM Analytics Standard Reports Custom Reports - 100 Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Schedule Reports - Maximum 100 schedules Maximum 100 schedules Maximum 100 schedules Maximum 200 schedules Standard Dashboards - Custom Dashboards - Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Charts and KPIs - Anomaly Detector - - - 10 trends Additional 1 trend/user license (max 50) 20 trends Additional 2 trends/user license (max 100) Zia Notification subscription for Anomaly Detector components - 10 components 10 components 10 components 30 components Comparator - 25 components 25 components Unlimited Unlimited Funnel - 25 components 25 components Unlimited Unlimited Quadrant Analysis - Zone - Target Meter - Cohort Analysis - 5 5 10 25 Stage Component - - - Waterfall Component - - - Marketing Automation Campaigns Mass Email This limit applies only to the org's sales activities. Kindly check Zoho Campaigns for campaigning purpose. Mass emails do not include workflow email notifications. - 250/day/org 500/day/org 1000/day/org 2000/day/org Custom Email Templates 10 templates 100 templates Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Email Opt-out Autoresponders - - - 3 autoresponders 5 autoresponders Schedule Mass Email - - 10/module 10/module 10/module Zia Data Enrichment - 500 records/user, maximum of 50,000 records 500 records/user, maximum of 50,000 records 500 records/user, maximum of 50,000 records 2000 records/user, maximum of 50,000 records Churn Prediction - - - 2/org 20/org Field Prediction - - 2/org 2/org 20/org Recommendation Builder - - 1/org 1/org 10/org Similarity Recommendation - - 1/org 1/org 10/org Zia Recommendations for CPQ - - Macro Suggestion - - Workflow Suggestion - - - Next Best Experience - - - (>10 users license) (>10 users license) Recommendation Analytics - - Best Time to Contact - - Best Time to Contact Analytics - - - (>20 users license) (>20 users license) Best Mode of Contact - - Email and Email Thread Summary - - Email Intent - - Email Custom Intent - - Email Activity Extraction - - Email Sentiment, CNS Consecutive Negative Sentiment - - Email Emotion - - Email Subject Suggestion - - Email - Sentence Auto Complete - - Email Translation - - Email Enrichment - - Call Summary - - Call Intent - - Call Sentiment - - Call Emotion - - Call Transcription - - Ask Zia Help, Actions, Insights - - Ask Zia (Old UI) - - Zia Module Creation - - Zia Workflow Creation - - Anomalies in Workflow Rule - - - Vision - Image Matching - - 1/org 1/org 20/org Vision - Image Detection - - 1/org 1/org 20/org Intelligent Character Recognition - - 2/org 3/org 5/org Zia Notifications - - Anomaly Notification - - An user can subscribe to 10 components An user can subscribe to 10 components An user can subscribe to 30 components Automatic Anomaly Notification Custom view and Stage based - - - Workflow Email Duplicate Alert - - - Competitor Alert - - Record Owner Suggestion - - - Zia for Forecasts - - Anomaly Detector - - - 10 trends Additional 1 trend/user license (max 50) 10 trends Additional 1 trend/user license (max 50) Dashboard Component Suggestion - - - (>20 users license) (>20 users license) Zia Scores - - 5/org 5/org 10/org Voice of the Customer - - Strategy Influencer - - 6/org 6/org 6/org Zia Presentation - - Prediction Analytics - - Smart Prompt (ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude, Cohere) - - Smart Prompt (DeepSeek, SiliconFlow) - - Smart Prompt (Zia) - - Notes Summary - - Record Summary - - Conversation Summary - - Duplicate Image Detection - - (>20 users license) (>20 users license) (>20 users license) Zia Writing Assistant - - Custom AI Studio - Prompt Builder in Custom Button - - - Image to Canvas - Formula Expression Generator - - Zia Agents -

---

## Request a callback | Zoho CRM Software
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/request-callback.html?source_from=edition-selection`

Request a callback | Zoho CRM Software Request a Callback Interested in learning more about Zoho CRM? Fill out the form and one of our product experts will call you to understand your requirements better. You can also call us directly at You can also write to us at sales@zohocorp.com. Putting all of our information in Zoho CRM has made it possible for the information to be easily accessible across the company. With Zoho CRM, we have access to real-time information in just a few seconds which previously took several weeks. Once I tried Zoho CRM, I really didn’t look back. David Morrissey Allergy Standards Name * Please enter your name Email address * Please enter your email address Phone * Please enter your phone number Country * What do you need help with? * -None- Sales inquiries / Demo requests Assistance with using Zoho CRM More information about Zoho applications Please select an option Let us know a bit more about what you're looking for: * Please answer this question within a maximum of 250 characters Captcha * Reload Please enter valid captcha You can also call us directly at or write to us at sales@zohocorp.com. Putting all of our information in Zoho CRM has made it possible for the information to be easily accessible across the company. With Zoho CRM, we have access to real-time information in just a few seconds which previously took several weeks. Once I tried Zoho CRM, I really didn’t look back. David Morrissey Allergy Standards

---

## Increase API Credits from the Dashboard | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/purchase-from-dashboard.html`

Increase API Credits from the Dashboard | Zoho CRM API | V8 Increase API Credits API calls in Zoho CRM are associated with credits. These credits are deducted from your credit count based on the criteria discussed on the API Limits page. Zoho CRM has now introduced the "Pay as you go" model allowing CRM organizations to increase their API credits directly from the API dashboard. The highlight of this feature is that although you increase your credits based on an estimate, you only pay for the extra credits you have consumed through API calls in that monthly billing cycle. Prerequisites to increase the credits You must be the super admin of your account. Your account must be a paid account. You must have paid only by card and not through the accumulated payments credits. Your account must not be an offline-purchased or one-time paid account. If it is, then to increase your limit, please send an email to renewal@zohocorp.com or support@zohocrm.com . The below table gives the pricing details for different credit slabs. Add-on Credits per 24 hours Price in $ per 1000 Credits per 24 hours First 25,000 0.14 Next 75,000 0.06 Next 150,000 0.05 Above 250,000 0.025 Here is a calculator to know the amount payable based on your DC, add-on credits and the payment period. Payments Currency: US Dollars - USD Australian Dollars - AUD Euro - EUR Pound Sterlings - GBP Indian Rupees - INR Chinese Yuan - CNY Japanese Yen - JPY Singapore Dollars - SGD Mexican Pesos - MXN UAE Dirhams - AED Saudi Riyal - SAR South African Rand - ZAR Nigerian Naira - NGN Kenyan Shillings - KES Egyptian Pound - EGP Add-on Credits: Payments Period: Monthly Quarterly Half Yearly Annual The total amount payable for 100,000 Add-on credits is 240 US Dollars, billed monthly . How can you increase the credits from the API Dashboard? As the super admin of the org, Estimate the number of extra credits that your org will require. Go to Setup > Developer Hub > APIs and SDKs . Click the Credits tab. You can see the Credit details section. Credit details This section displays the Daily available free credit limit , Overall credits , Unused credits (in the last 24 hours), and the Additional credits . Daily available free credit limit - This limit represents the number of credits available for your edition in a 24-hour rolling window. This limit includes the base credits plus the credits for each user in the org. Additional credits - These are the extra credits you want for your org. To set your limit on the additional credits, Click Add . The Set daily credit limit pop up opens. Enter the number of extra credits you want in the Enter additional credit limit field. Based on the additional credits, the tariff is applied and the amount to be paid is displayed. If you want to increase by 75,000 credits for your org, two tariff slabs apply: $0.14 for the first 25,000 credits and $0.06 for the next 50,000 credits. The pricing is as below. For the first 25,000 credits - (25,000 x $0.14)/1000 = $3.5 For the next 50,000 credits - (50,000 x 0.06)/1000 = $3 Therefore, the total amount to be paid will be $6.5 per day ($3.5+$3). Click Set . You can now see that the overall credits and the used credits are calculated based on the set limit. Overall credits - This limit is the sum of the daily available credit limit and the additional credits, if any. Unused credits - These are the credits still left for your org in that 24-hour rolling window. Note All credit calculations are for a 24-hour period. You can increase your credits by either a maximum of 500,000 extra credits, or the difference between your edition's maximum credit limit and your current API limit, whichever is lower. For example, you are in the Standard edition with the maximum credits at 100,000, and used 20,000 credits. So, you can increase your credits by a maximum of 80,000 (100,000 - 20,000). You will be charged monthly for your additional credits based on the usage, even though you pay for your subscription yearly. You cannot use the additional credits in your trial account of any edition. After you set the limit, the Credits tab displays the Billing details section. Billing details This section gives you the details of the billing for the extra credits you have consumed until that day of the billing cycle, the billing period, and the next billing date. When you click View details , the Charge details pop up opens. This gives you a break-up of the utilization of additional credits based on a time period, and the amount you must pay for consuming those credits. The View tariff option comes in handy when you want to view the pricing slabs at a glance. You can view the usage in the last 30 days or set a custom range. You can view the usage stats for a maximum of the last three months. Use the more option icon (the three dots icon) to download the billing and usage details as a PDF or print it. The Amount charged column gives you the amount you are charged on a particular day. When you click the amount, another

---

## Get Data Sharing Rules API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/data-sharing-rules.html`

Get Data Sharing Rules API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Data Sharing APIs Data Sharing in Zoho CRM gives you an option to extend the access rights to CRM records for users belonging to other roles and groups. By default, the Organization Permissions is set as private allowing only the record owner and their manager can view and access the CRM data. Users with Module Customization permission in their profile can access this feature. For users with administrative profile this permission will be enabled by default. To enable Modules Customization permission, go to Setup > Security Control > Profiles. Select the desired profile that require the permission, and enable Module Customization option in Admin Level section under Setup Permission . Get Data Sharing Rules Purpose To retrieve the list of data sharing rules configured in your Zoho CRM organization. Endpoints GET /settings/data_sharing/rules Copy full URL GET /settings/data_sharing/rules/{rule_ID} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To retrieve all data sharing rules: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/data_sharing/rules To get a specific sharing rule: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/data_sharing/rules/{rule_ID} Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Tasks, Meetings, Calls, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, and Custom modules Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.data_sharing.READ Parameters module string, optional Specify the API name of the module for which you want to fetch data sharing rules. For example, Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Deals, and so on. Sample Request to retrieve all data sharing rules Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/data_sharing/rules" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -X GET Response JSON module JSON object Represents the module to which the sharing rule applies. It consists of the API name and the display label, and the unique identifier of the module. superiors_allowed boolean Indicates whether the superiors to the particular role or group with whom the records are shared are allowed access to the records or not. Possible values: true - Superiors are allowed access false - Superiors are not allowed access type string Specifies the type of sharing rule, which can be based on the record owner or on specific criteria for the records to be shared. Possible values: Record_Owner_Based - Data sharing is based on the record owner Criteria_Based - Data sharing is based on the criteria. shared_to JSON object Represents the details of the resource to which data is shared. Data can be shared to roles, roles and subordinates, groups, or all users. resource JSON object Represents the resource to which data is shared. It consists of the name and unique identifier of the resource. type string Specifies the type of the resource to which data is shared. Possible values: roles - Record is shared to roles if subordinates key is false. Record is shared to roles and subordinates if subordinates key is true. Possible values: groups - Record is shared to group all_users - Records is shared to all users. subordinates boolean Indicates whether subordinates are included when "type" key is roles. Possible values: true - Subordinates are included. false - Subordinates are not included. The keys "type" and "subordinates" together denote these possibilities of data sharing (roles, roles and subordinates, all users or groups) as below. Resource to which data is shared Type Subordinates Groups groups false Roles roles false Roles and subordinates roles true All users all_users false shared_from Represents the details of the resource whose data is shared. These details are available when the data sharing type is record owner based. Data can be shared from roles, roles and subordinates, or groups. resource JSON object Represents the resource whose data is shared. It consists of the name and unique identifier of the resource. type string Represents the type of the resource whose data is shared. Data can be shared from roles, roles and subordinates, or groups. Possible values: roles - Record is shared from roles if subordinates key is false. Record is shared from roles and subordinates if subordinates key is true. groups - Record is shared to group. subordinates boolean Indicates whether subordinates are included when "type" key is roles. Possible values: true - Subordinates are included. false - Subordinates are not included. The keys "type" and "subordinate"s together represent the different types of resources whose data can be shared (e.g., roles, roles and subordinates, or groups), as explained below. Resource to which data is shared Type Subordinates Groups groups false Roles roles false Roles and subordinates roles true criteria JSON object It represents the criteria for sharing records. These details are available when the data sharing type is criteria based and a specific data sharin

---

## Update Data Sharing Rule API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/update-data-sharing-settings.html`

Update Data Sharing Rule API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Update Default Organization Permissions Purpose To update your organization's default data-sharing permissions for modules. Endpoints PUT /settings/data_sharing Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/data_sharing Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, Appointments, Appointments Rescheduled History, Services and Custom modules. Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.data_sharing.UPDATE (or) ZohoCRM.settings.data_sharing.ALL Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/data_sharing" -X PUT -d "@input.json" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Input JSON data_sharing JSON array, mandatory Contains the details of your organization's default data-sharing permissions for modules. share_type string, mandatory Represents the access levels available for each module in Zoho CRM. This key allows you to modify access levels for users as needed. Possible values: private: Only the record owner and their superior can view the records in the module. public_read_only: Users can view others' records but cannot modify or delete them. public_read_write: Users can view and modify others' records but cannot delete them. public: Users can view, modify, and delete others' records. module JSON object Contains details of the module's API name and ID for which you want to change user access across your organization. Use the GET - Modules Metadata API to get module API names and IDs. Note You can modify data-sharing access for both system-defined and custom modules. Sample Input Copied { "data_sharing": [ { "share_type": "public", "module": { "api_name": "Leads", "id": "2276164000000000125" } } ] } Possible Errors INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 Invalid data given in the "module" key Resolution: Specify a valid value in the "module" key. Use the GET - Modules Metadata API to get module API names and IDs. Invalid data given in the "share_type" key Resolution: Specify a valid values in the "share_type" key. Supported values: private, public_read_only, public_read_write, and public. Refer to the Input JSON section for details. MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND HTTP 400 One or more mandatory keys are missing Resolution: Specify all mandatory keys in your input body. Refer to the Input JSON section for details. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to the Endpoints section. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: The client does not have a valid scope to update organization's data sharing permission. Create a new token with valid scope. Refer to the Scope section for details. AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE HTTP 401 Authentication failed Resolution: Pass the access token in the request header of the API call. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the Request URL section for details. Refer to the request URL section above. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in the server. Contact support team. Sample Response Copied { "data_sharing": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "module": "Leads" }, "message": "data sharing settings updated successfully", "status": "success" } ] }

---

## Update Custom Module API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/update-custom-module-api.html`

Update Custom Module API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Update Custom Module Purpose To update a custom module in your Zoho CRM account. Endpoints PUT /settings/modules/{module_ID} Copy full URL PUT /settings/modules/{module_API_name} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/modules/{module_ID} (or) {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/modules/{module_API_name} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.modules.UPDATE (or) ZohoCRM.settings.modules.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.settings.ALL Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/modules/2423488000000834002" -X PUT -d "@input.json" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Input JSON plural_label string, optional Represents the unique plural name of the module. A maximum of 25 characters, including spaces , is allowed. Note that the value of this field should not be empty, and only letters, numbers, and spaces are supported. singular_label string, optional Represents the unique singular name of the module. A maximum of 25 characters, including spaces , is allowed. Note that the value of this field should not be empty, and only letters, numbers, and spaces are supported. profiles string, optional Specify the profiles that should have access to the module. It is mandatory to specify at least one profile. Refer to the GET Profiles API to retrieve the profiles available in your organization. Note Retrieve the modules API name and IDs using the GET - Module Metadata API . The module API name can be updated only through the UI . To create or update custom modules, you need the Enterprise edition or higher. You can update one module in a single API call. Assign at least one profile to each module. Updating a single module consumes five credits . Sample Input Copied { "modules": [ { "plural_label": "Digital Marketings", "singular_label": "Digital Marketing", "profiles": [ { "id": "2423488000000015972", "_delete": null }, { "id": "2423488000000015975" } ] } ] } Possible Errors INVALID_MODULE HTTP 400 The URL contains invalid module data Resolution: Specify the correct API name or module ID in the URL. Refer to the GET Modules API to retrieve the module details. NOT_ALLOWED HTTP 400 API name cannot be updated for module Resolution: The module API name can be updated only through the UI. MINIMUM_DATA_NOT_FOUND HTTP 400 Minimum one profile is needed Resolution: The profile key should not be empty or null . Assign atleast one profile to update a module. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to the Endpoints section. MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND HTTP 400 Mandatory fields are missing Resolution: Specify all the mandatory fields to create a custom module. Refer to the Input JSON section for more details. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: The client does not have a valid scope to update a custom module. Create a new token with the required scopes. Refer to the Scope section. AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE HTTP 401 Authentication failed Resolution: Pass the access token in the request header of the API call. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the Request URL section at the beginning of this page for more details. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in the server. Contact support team. Sample Response Copied { "modules": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "2423488000000834002" }, "message": "module updated successfully", "status": "success" } ] }

---

## Replace Global Picklists Options API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/replace-global-picklist-options.html`

Replace Global Picklists Options API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Replace Global PickList Value Purpose To replace a picklist value from all the used places, with another existing option of the global picklist in your Zoho CRM. Existing value will be replaced in the used places like Records, Criteria, Workflow Actions, and Field Dependency. The replaced value will be moved to the Unused values section once the replacing action is over. Endpoints POST /settings/global_picklists/{global_pick_list_ID}/actions/replace_picklist_values Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/{global_pick_list_ID}/actions/replace_picklist_values Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.global_picklist.CREATE (or) ZohoCRM.settings.global_picklist.ALL Supported modules Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Campaigns, Cases, Invoices, Deals, Price Books, Products, Purchase Orders, Quotes, Sales Orders, Solutions, Vendors, Calls, Tasks, Events, Users, DealHistory, QuotedItems, OrderedItems, PurchaseItems, InvoicedItems, Visits, Services, Appointments, and Custom modules. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/global_picklists/2423488000000725183/actions/replace_picklist_values" -X POST -d "@input.json" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Input JSON Keys old_value JSON object, mandatory It represents the value which you want to replace in all used places. new_value JSON object, mandatory It represents the new option, with which you want to replace the old value. Notes The -None- value in picklist options cannot be replaced. The IDs of both the old_value and new_value cannot be the same. If you provide an empty string or null value for the display_value , the system will throw an INVALID_DATA error. You cannot replace a picklist that has already been scheduled for the deletion. When you try to replace an option in a global picklist associated with any field in a record, the action triggers a scheduled job. You won't receive an immediate response. Instead, you will be provided with a job ID to check the status of your replaced option using Get the Status of a Scheduled Replace Job for Global Picklist Options API . Sample Input Copied { "replace_picklist_values": [ { "old_value": { "id": "2423488000000492041", "display_value": "Twitter" }, "new_value": { "id": "2423488000000725184", "display_value": "X" } } ] } Possible Errors INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 The global picklist ID seems to be invalid Given ID of an option in the global picklist seems to be invalid. -None- and its value cannot be replaced Resoutions: Provide a valid global picklist value. Provide a valid ID option. Use the GET Global Picklist API to retrieve the unique ID of the global picklist. You cannot replace the -None- option. Try using a different value. AMBIGUITY_DURING_PROCESSING HTTP 400 The display_value and its corresponding ID seems to be invalid Resolution: Provide a valid display value and its corresponding ID to perform the action. EXPECTED_FIELD_MISSING HTTP 400 Specify atleast one field in the old_value Specify atleast one field in the new_value Resolutions: It is mandatory to provide at least one field ( ID or display_value ) in the old_value JSON object to perform the action. Use the GET Global Picklist API to retrieve the unique ID of the global picklist. It is mandatory to provide at least one field ( ID or display_value ) in the new_value JSON object to perform the action. Use the GET Global Picklist API to retrieve the unique ID of the global picklist. NOT_ALLOWED HTTP 400 Option cannot be replaced. Given global picklist ID has already been in deletion scheduler Resolutions: The options you are trying to replace are associated with the features like Blueprint and ABM mapping. You cannot replace a picklist that has already been scheduled for deletion. LIMIT_EXCEEDED HTTP 400 The limit of used or unused options has been reached Resolution: Used options can have up to 1000 limits, and unused options can have up to 500 limits. Specify the options in the input regarding limit. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The https request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to the Endpoints section. UNABLE_TO_PARSE_DATA_TYPE HTTP 401 Either the request body or parameters is in wrong format Resolution: Specify a valid input format. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: The client does not have a valid scope to replace global picklist options. Create a valid token with required scopes. Refer to the Scope section. AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE HTTP 401 Authentication failed Resolution: Pass the access token in the request header of the API call. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the

---

## Create Data Sharing Rules | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/create-data-sharing-rules.html`

Create Data Sharing Rules | Zoho CRM API | V8 Create Data Sharing Rule Purpose To create a data-sharing rule that extends access rights to CRM records for users in other roles and groups, or for all users in your Zoho CRM organization. Note You can use this API to create a single data sharing rule at a time. Endpoints POST /settings/data_sharing/rules?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/data_sharing/rules?module={module_API_name} Possible module names Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Deals, Tasks, Events, Calls, Products, Quotes, Sales_Orders, Purchase_Orders, Invoices, Campaigns, Vendors, Price_Books, Cases, Solutions Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.data_sharing.create Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Tasks, Meetings, Calls, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, and Custom modules Parameter module string, mandatory Specify the module for which you want to create the data sharing rule, such as Leads or Contacts. You can use the GET - Modules Metadata API to retrieve the module API names. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/data_sharing/rules?module=Leads" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d @createsharingrules.json -X POST Input JSON name string, mandatory Represents the name of the sharing rule. superiors_allowed boolean, mandatory Indicates whether the superiors of the particular role or group with whom the records are shared are allowed access to the records or not. Possible values: true - Superiors are allowed access false - Superiors are not allowed access type string, mandatory Specifies the type of sharing rule. Sharing rules can be based on the record owner or on specific criteria for the records to be shared. Possible values: Record_Owner_Based - Data sharing is based on the record owner Criteria_Based - Data sharing is based on the criteria. shared_to JSON object, mandatory Represents the details of the resource to which data is shared. Data can be shared to roles, roles and subordinates, groups, or all users. resource JSON object Represents the resource to which data is shared. It consists of the unique identifier of the resource. type string Specifies the type of resource to which data is shared. Possible values: roles - Records are shared to roles if subordinates key is false. Records are shared to roles and subordinates if subordinates key is true. groups - Records are shared to group all_users - Records are shared to all users. subordinates boolean Indicates whether records are shared with subordinates when "type" is set to roles. Possible values: true - Subordinates are included. false - Subordinates are not included. The keys "type" and "subordinates" together denote these possibilities of data sharing (roles, roles and subordinates, all users or groups) as below. Resource to which data is shared Type Subordinates Groups groups false Roles roles false Roles and subordinates roles true All users all_users false shared_from JSON object, mandatory when type is Record_Owner_Based Represents the details of the resource whose data is shared. These details are available when the data sharing type is record owner based. Data can be shared from roles, roles and subordinates, or groups. resource JSON object Represents the resource whose data is shared. It consists of the unique identifier of the resource. type string Represents the type of the resource whose data is shared. Data can be shared from roles, roles and subordinates, or groups. Possible values: roles - Record is shared from roles if subordinates key is false. Record is shared from roles and subordinates if subordinates key is true. groups - Record is shared to group. subordinates boolean Indicates whether subordinates are included when "type" key is roles. Possible values: true - Subordinates are included. false - Subordinates are not included. The keys "type" and "subordinate"s together represent the different types of resources whose data can be shared (e.g., roles, roles and subordinates, or groups), as explained below. Resource to which data is shared Type Subordinates Groups groups false Roles roles false Roles and subordinates roles true criteria JSON object, mandatory when type is Criteria_Based It represents the criteria for sharing records. These details should be provided when the data sharing type is criteria based. group_operator string Specifies the group operator used in the criteria group JSON array It represents the group of criteria for filtering records. field JSON object It represents the API name of the field. comparator string It represents the comparison operator used in the criterion. value string It represents the value used in the criterion. permission_type string, mandatory Specifies the type of permissions or access granted. Possible values: read - read on

---

## Update Territories - API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/update-territories.html`

Update Territories - API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Update Territories Purpose To update the details of existing territories in your Zoho CRM organization. Endpoints PUT /settings/territories Copy full URL PUT /settings/territories/{territory_ID} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To update all territories: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories To update a specific territories: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/territories/{territory_ID} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.territories.{operation_type} Possible operation types ALL - Full access to territories UPDATE - To update territories Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/territories" -X PUT -d "@updateterritories.json" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" In the request, "@updateterritories.json" contains the sample input. Input JSON id string, optional Represents the ID of the territory.This is mandatory if ID is not mentioned in the end point name string, optional Represents the name of the territory. reporting_to JSON Object, optional Represents the ID of the parent territory. This can be obtained from GET Territories API manager JSON Object, optional Represents the manager details of the territory. You can give ID of the manager of the territory. Use the Get Users API to get the ID of the user you want to set as manager of the territory. Set the manager field to null to remove a manager from the territory. permission_type string, mandatory Represents the type of permission for the territory. Valid values are read_only and read_write_delete. description string, optional Represents the description of the territory. account_rule_criteria JSON Object, optional Represents the criteria for Account module territory rules. comparator string, optional Represents the comparison operator for the account rule criteria (For example, greater_than, less_than). field JSON Object, optional Represents the field details for the account rule criteria. api_name string, optional Represents the API name of the field for the account rule criteria. id string, optional Represents the unique ID of the field for the account rule criteria.This can be obtained from Field Metadata API value string, optional Represents the value to compare with for the account rule criteria. lead_rule_criteria JSON Object, optional Represents the criteria for lead rules in the territory. comparator string, optional Represents the comparison operator for the lead rule criteria (For example, greater_than, less_than). field JSON Object, optional Represents the field details for the lead rule criteria. api_name string, optional Represents the API name of the field for the lead rule criteria. id string, optional Represents the unique ID of the field for the lead rule criteria. This can be obtained from Field Metadata API value string, optional Represents the value to compare with for the lead rule criteria. deal_rule_criteria JSON Object, optional Represents the criteria for deal rules in the territory. comparator string, optional Represents the comparison operator for the deal rule criteria (e.g., greater_than, less_than). field JSON Object, optional Represents the field details for the deal rule criteria. api_name string, optional Represents the API name of the field for the deal rule criteria. id string, optional Represents the unique ID of the field for the deal rule criteria.This can be obtained from Field Metadata API value string, optional Represents the value to compare with for the deal rule criteria. Note The following section describe field types and their allowed comparators Text, Picklist, Lookup equal, not_equal, contains, not_contains, starts_with, ends_with Date literals supported and their comparators Date literal TODAY TOMORROW TOMORROWPLUS(Starting tomorrow) YESTERDAY AGEINDAYS AGEINDAYS EMPTY Comparator equal Date literal YESTERDAYMINUS(Till yesterday) Comparator less_equal Date literal NOTEMPTY Comparator not_equal Date literal LASTMONTH THISMONTH NEXTMONTH LASTWEEK THISWEEK LASTYEAR THISYEAR NEXTYEAR PREVFQ (FQ - Financial Quarter) THISFQ NEXTFQ PREVFY (FY - Financial Year)THISFY NEXTFY Comparator between Maximum number of rules supported in each criteria are 25 Maximum number of territories that can be created in your organiztion depends upon the version of CRM Maximum number of territories that can be updated in one API call is 10 Sample Input Copied { "territories": [ { "id": "431581000000798016", "name": "Territory1234", "reporting_to": { "id": "431581000000272796" }, "manager": null, "permission_type": "read_only", "description": null, "account_rule_criteria": null, "lead_rule_criteria": null, "deal_rule_criteria": { "comparator": "greater_than", "field": { "api_name": "Amount", "id": "431581000000000799" }, "value": "2000000" } } ] } Possible Errors LIMIT_EXCEEDED HTTP 400 Maximum Territory limit reached Maximum Users Limit reached for

---

## Delete Global Picklist API | Online Help - Zoho CRM
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/delete-global-picklist.html`

Delete Global Picklist API | Online Help - Zoho CRM Delete Global Picklist Purpose To delete a global picklist configured in your Zoho CRM account. Endpoints DELETE /settings/global_picklists/{global_picklist_ID} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/global_picklists/{global_picklist_ID} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.global_picklist.DELETE (or) ZohoCRM.settings.global_picklist.ALL Supported modules Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Campaigns, Cases, Invoices, Deals, Price Books, Products, Purchase Orders, Quotes, Sales Orders, Solutions, Vendors, Calls, Tasks, Events, Users, DealHistory, QuotedItems, OrderedItems, PurchaseItems, InvoicedItems, Visits, Services, Appointments, and Custom modules. Parameters ids string, optional It represents the unique ID of the global picklist that you want to delete. Skip this parameter if you have specified the ID in the request URL. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/global_picklists/2423488000000725001" -X DELETE -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Possible Errors INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 Given global picklist ID seems to be invalid Resolution: Specify a valid global picklist ID. Use the GET Global Picklist API to retrieve the unique ID of the global picklist. NOT_ALLOWED HTTP 400 The provided global picklist ID is already scheduled for deletion Global picklists limit exceeded Resolutions: The global picklist has already been scheduled for deletion. Please provide another valid global picklist ID. Use the GET Global Picklist API to retrieve the unique ID of the global picklist. Reach out to our support team at support@zohocrm.com. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The https request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to the Endpoints section for reference. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: The client does not have a valid scope to a delete global picklist. Create a valid token with required scopes. Refer to the Scope section for reference. AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE HTTP 401 Authentication failed Resolution: Pass the access token in the request header of the API call. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the Request URL section for reference. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in the server. Contact support team. Sample Response Copied { "global_picklists": [ { "code": "SCHEDULED", "details": { "job_id": "111111000000201021" }, "message": "global picklist delete scheduled successfully", "status": "success" } ] }

---

## Mass Change Owner API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/mass-change-owner.html`

Mass Change Owner API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Mass Change Owner Purpose To bulk update the ownership of records in a specific custom view or territory in a module in Zoho CRM. Endpoints POST /{module_API_name}/actions/mass_change_owner Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/{module_API_name}/actions/mass_change_owner Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Campaigns, Tasks, Cases, Meetings, Calls, Solutions, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, and Custom Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.change_owner.CREATE Note You cannot change the owner of the related records. You can change the owner of up to 50,000 records in a custom view. This API schedules a job and gives you a job ID to get the status of the API. Job statuses are retrievable for up to 60 days . The Mass Change Owner API is supported in both the Enterprise and Ultimate editions. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Deals/actions/mass_change_owner" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@input.json" -X POST Request JSON cvid string, mandatory The unique ID of the custom view of whose records you want to change the owner. Use the Custom View Metadata API to get the ID of the custom view. Note that when you want to change the owner of the records in a custom view, this API schedules a job and returns a job ID. Use this ID with the Mass Change Owner Status API to track the job status. owner JSON object, mandatory The unique ID of the new owner to assign the records to. Use the Get Users API to get the ID of the user. territory JSON object, mandatory when you want to change the owner of the records in a territory The unique ID of the territory whose records are to be reassigned to the new owner. Use the Get Territories API to get the ID of the territory. criteria JSON object, optional Apply specific conditions to filter the records whose ownership will be changed. field JSON object, optional The field to which the condition applies. Provide its API name or unique ID . Retrieve field details using the Field Metadata API . comparator string, mandatory (it is mandatory when you use criteria) Specifies the comparison operator. value string, mandatory (it is mandatory when you use criteria) The specific value the field must match for the condition to be applied. Sample Input Copied { "cvid" : "2423488000000091545", "owner":{ "id" : "2423488000000483001" }, "territory": { "id": "2423488000000780003", "include_child": true }, "criteria" : { "field" : { "api_name" : "Stage", "id" : "2423488000000000525" }, "comparator" : "equal", "value": "Qualification" } } In the sample request, the criteria filter records in the Deals module where the Stage field is set to Qualification . These filtered records, within the specified territory and custom view, are then reassigned to a new owner. Response JSON code string Represents the outcome of the request. details JSON object Contains the unique identifier for the scheduled job. This ID can be used with the Mass Change Owner Status API to monitor the job's progress and outcome. message string A brief message confirming the status of the request. status string Indicates the status of the request. Possible Errors INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The request method is incorrect. Resolution: Use the HTTP PUT method to make this API call. Any other request method will result in this error. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 Reasons : The CVID is invalid. The territory's ID is invalid. The user's ID is invalid. The user you are trying to assign the records to is deleted from your org. The user you are trying to assign the records to is inactive. Resolutions: Provide valid IDs of the user, CVID, and the territory. MANDATORY_NOT_FOUND HTTP 400 You have not specified either the CVID, the owner's ID, or both. Resolution: CVID and Owner's ID is mandatory in the input. RECORD_LIMIT_EXCEEDED HTTP 400 The custom view has more than 50,000 records. Resolution: You can only change the owner of up to 50,000 records in a custom view through this API. NO_PERMISSION HTTP 403 Reasons: You do not have permission to the module. You do not have permission to change the owner. You do not have permission to view the records in that custom view. Resolution: Contact your system administrator to obtain sufficient permissions. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 The request URL is incorrect. Resolution: Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the request URL section at the beginning of this page for more details. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Unexpected and unhandled exception in the server. Resolution: Contact the support team at support@zohocrm.com. Sample Response Copied { "data": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "job_id": "3652397000009026002" }, "message": "change owner is successfully scheduled", "status": "success" } ] }

---

## Update Data Sharing Rules | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/update-data-sharing-rules.html`

Update Data Sharing Rules | Zoho CRM API | V8 Update Data Sharing Rule Purpose To update a data sharing rule configured in your Zoho CRM organization. Note You can use this API to update a single data sharing rule at a time. Endpoints PUT /settings/data_sharing/rules?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL PUT /settings/data_sharing/rules/{rules_ID}?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL To update a single data sharing rule: {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/data_sharing/rules?module={module_API_name} {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/data_sharing/rules/{rules_ID}?module={module_API_name} Possible module names Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Deals, Tasks, Events, Calls, Products, Quotes, Sales_Orders, Purchase_Orders, Invoices, Campaigns, Vendors, Price_Books, Cases, Solutions Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.data_sharing.update Supported modules Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Deals, Tasks, Meetings, Calls, Products, Vendors, Price Books, Quotes, Sales Orders, Purchase Orders, Invoices, and Custom modules Parameter module string, mandatory Specify the module for which you want to update the data sharing rule, such as Leads or Contacts. You can use the GET - Modules Metadata API to retrieve the module API names. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/data_sharing/rules?module=Leads" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d @updatesharingrules.json -X PUT Input JSON name string, optional Represents the name of the sharing rule. id string, optional Represents the unique identifier of the sharing rule. Refer to Get Sharing Rules API to get the unique ID of the sharing rule. superiors_allowed boolean, mandatory Indicates whether the superiors of the particular role or group with whom the records are shared are allowed access to the records or not. Possible values: true - Superiors are allowed access false - Superiors are not allowed access type string, mandatory Specifies the type of sharing rule. Sharing rules can be based on the record owner or on specific criteria for the records to be shared. Possible values: Record_Owner_Based - Data sharing is based on the record owner Criteria_Based - Data sharing is based on the criteria. shared_to JSON object, mandatory Represents the details of the resource to which data is shared. Data can be shared to roles, roles and subordinates, groups, or all users. resource JSON object Represents the resource to which data is shared. It consists of the unique identifier of the resource. type string Specifies the type of resource to which data is shared. Possible values: roles - Records are shared to roles if subordinates key is false. Records are shared to roles and subordinates if subordinates key is true. groups - Records are shared to group all_users - Records are shared to all users. subordinates boolean Indicates whether records are shared with subordinates when "type" is set to roles. Possible values: true - Subordinates are included. false - Subordinates are not included. The keys "type" and "subordinates" together denote these possibilities of data sharing (roles, roles and subordinates, all users or groups) as below. Resource to which data is shared Type Subordinates Groups groups false Roles roles false Roles and subordinates roles true All users all_users false shared_from JSON object, mandatory when type is Record_Owner_Based Represents the details of the resource whose data is shared. These details are available when the data sharing type is record owner based. Data can be shared from roles, roles and subordinates, or groups. resource JSON object Represents the resource whose data is shared. It consists of the unique identifier of the resource. type string Represents the type of the resource whose data is shared. Data can be shared from roles, roles and subordinates, or groups. Possible values: roles - Record is shared from roles if subordinates key is false. Record is shared from roles and subordinates if subordinates key is true. groups - Record is shared to group. subordinates boolean Indicates whether subordinates are included when "type" key is roles. Possible values: true - Subordinates are included. false - Subordinates are not included. The keys "type" and "subordinate"s together represent the different types of resources whose data can be shared (e.g., roles, roles and subordinates, or groups), as explained below. Resource to which data is shared Type Subordinates Groups groups false Roles roles false Roles and subordinates roles true criteria JSON object, mandatory when type is Criteria_Based It represents the criteria for sharing records. These details should be provided when the data sharing type is criteria based. group_operator string Specifies the group operator used in the criteria group JSON array It represents the group of criteria for filtering records. field JSON object It represents the API name 

---

## Convert Lead | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/convert-lead.html`

Convert Lead | Zoho CRM API | V8 Convert Lead Purpose To convert a lead into a contact or an account , use the Lead Conversion Options API to identify existing records in Contacts , Accounts , and Deals that match the lead's data before conversion. This helps prevent duplicate records by allowing you to associate the lead with existing records instead of creating new ones with the same data. Endpoints POST /Leads/{record_id}/actions/convert Copy full URL {record_id} : The unique ID of the Lead record you want to convert. Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/Leads/{record_id}/actions/convert Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope scope=ZohoCRM.modules.ALL (or) scope=ZohoCRM.modules.leads.CREATE Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/Leads/3652397000007566544/actions/convert" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" -d "@convertlead.json" -X POST In the request, "@convertlead.json" contains the sample input. Order of preference for mapping with Contacts and Accounts No Unique Fields in the Leads Module The email ID of the lead is checked against email IDs in the Contacts module. The Company of the lead is checked against account names in the Accounts module. The lead's name is checked against names in the Contacts module. Presence of Unique Fields The order of preference is Contacts module first , followed by the Accounts module , based on field mapping and layout mapping. If there is no unique field in the Contacts module but a unique field exists in the Accounts module, then the order of preference will be Accounts first , followed by Contacts. Mapping Criteria Contacts: Unique field 1, Unique field 2, or Email (if Email is unique). Accounts: Unique field 1 or Unique field 2. Input JSON Keys overwrite boolean, optional Determines whether to overwrite the Account Name in a Contact when converting a Lead. For example, If a Contact is already linked to an Account but the Lead’s Company name is different, enabling this option will update the Contact’s Account to match the Lead’s Company. Possible values: false (default) : Keeps the existing Account Name in the Contact unchanged. true : Updates the Contact’s associated Account Name if it differs from the Company name in the Lead. notify_lead_owner boolean, optional Specifies whether the Lead Owner should receive an email notification when the lead is converted. Possible values: false (default) : No email notification is sent. true : Sends an email notification to the lead owner upon conversion. move_attachments_to JSON object, optional Specifies the API name of the module ( Contacts , Deals , or Accounts ) where the attachments from the lead should be moved upon conversion. It ensures that important files and documents attached to the lead are transferred to the appropriate module after conversion. Possible values: Contacts : Move attachments to the associated Contact. Deals : Move attachments to the associated Deal. Accounts : Move attachments to the associated Account. Accounts JSON object, optional It associates a lead to an existing Account instead of creating a new one during conversion. It helps maintain data consistency by associating the lead with an existing account instead of creating a duplicate. Use the GET - Records API to retrieve unique Account IDs. Contacts JSON object, optional Associates a lead with an existing contact instead of creating a new one during conversion. It helps maintain data consistency by linking the lead to an existing contact, avoiding duplicate contact creation. Use the GET - Records API to retrieve unique Contacts IDs. assign_to JSON object, optional Assigns a record owner for the new Contact and Account after lead conversion. It ensures that the converted lead is assigned to a specific user in Zoho CRM. Use the GET - Users API to retrieve valid User IDs. Deals JSON object, optional Use this key to create a deal for the newly created Account during lead conversion. Mandatory fields required to create a deal for the newly converted record: Deal_Name : API name of the deal. Closing_Date : Expected closing date of the deal. Pipeline : The sales pipeline the deal belongs to. Stage : The current stage of the deal in the pipeline. The "Contact_Role" key lets you assign a role to the contact that you have associated on conversion. Make a GET Contact Roles API call and pass the unique contact role ID. carry_over_tags JSON object, optional Use this key to carry over tags from the lead to the newly created contact, account, and deal during lead conversion. Note Use the Lead Conversion Options API to get the records that have matching data with the lead you want to convert in Contacts, Accounts, and Deals. This enables you to convert a lead and associate it with the relevant records instead of creating new ones with the same data. In the input, the assign_to value can only be the User ID . If the lead is not converted to a d

---

## Call Preferences API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/get-calls-preferences.html`

Call Preferences API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Get Calls Preferences Enabling / Disabling the "From Number" and "To Number" preferences will add the "From Number" and/remove "ToNumber" fields to the Calls module, respectively. Purpose Retrieve the Calls Preferences details in the Calls module of your Zoho CRM organization. The Call Preferences settings store the From Number and To Number along with details such as the Name , Call Type , Call Start Time , and other information about the caller or callee for all calls. Endpoints GET /settings/call_preferences Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/call_preferences Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.modules.READ (or) ZohoCRM.settings.modules.ALL Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/call_preferences" -X GET -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Response JSON call_preferences JSON object Contains the Call Preference details in the Calls module. show_to_number Boolean Shows whether the "To Number" field is enabled or disabled. show_from_number Boolean Shows whether the "From Number" field is enabled or disabled. Possible Errors INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to the Endpoints section. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: The client does not have a valid scope to know the call preferences details. Create a new token with valid scope. Refer to the Scope section. AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE HTTP 401 Authentication failed Resolution: Pass the access token in the request header of the API call. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the Request URL section. Refer to the Request URL section above. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in the server. Contact support team. Sample Response Copied { "call_preferences": { "show_to_number": true, "show_from_number": true } }

---

## Create Custom Module API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/create-custom-module-api.html`

Create Custom Module API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Create Custom Module Purpose To create a new custom module in Zoho CRM. Endpoints POST /settings/modules Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/modules Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.modules.CREATE (or) ZohoCRM.settings.modules.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.settings.ALL Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/modules" -X POST -d "@input.json" -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/modules Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.modules.CREATE (or) ZohoCRM.settings.modules.ALL (or) ZohoCRM.settings.ALL Common Input JSON Keys plural_label string, mandatory Represents the unique plural name of the module. A maximum of 25 characters, including spaces , is allowed. Note that the value of this field should not be empty, and only letters, numbers, and spaces are supported. singular_label string, mandatory Represents the unique singular name of the module. A maximum of 25 characters, including spaces , is allowed. Note that the value of this field should not be empty, and only letters, numbers, and spaces are supported. profiles string, mandatory Specify the profiles that should have access to the module. It is mandatory to specify at least one profile. Refer to the GET Profiles API to retrieve the profiles available in your org. api_name string, optional Represents the unique API name of the module. A maximum of 50 characters are allowed which can include alphabets , numbers , spaces, and underscore . The API name should start with an English alphabet character. The API name should not end with an underscore (_) and should not contain two consecutive underscores (__) . Note that if you skip this key, the system will generate the API name based on the value given in the plural_label field. display_field JSON object, optional Represents the details of the display field of a module. There are two supported values for the " display_field " key. Possible values: autonumber - Use the autonumber data type when you want the display field to automatically generate a unique number sequence for each record. You can set the start number, prefix, and suffix for the auto-number sequence. text - Use the text data type when you want the display field to be a text field that users can manually enter values. The following sections are specific to each data type. Note that by default the system will generate " Text " data type for the display field. Input JSON You can create a custom module with two field types: text and autonumber . To add more custom fields, use the Create Custom Field API and follow the same structure for each data type. Data Type: Text ("data_type" : "text") display_field JSON object, optional Represents the details of the display field of a module. field_label string, mandatory (either field_label or data_type is mandatory when you specify the display field) It represents the unique display label of the field. data_type string, mandatory (either data_type or field_label is mandatory when you specify the display field) Represents the data type of the field. Input JSON Data Type: Auto Number ("data_type" : "autonumber") display_field JSON object, optional Represents the details of the display field of a module. field_label string, mandatory (either field_label or data_type is mandatory when you specify the display field) Represents the display name of the field. data_type string, mandatory (either data_type or field_label is mandatory when you specify the display field) Represents the data type of the field. auto_number JSON object, mandatory Contains the details of the auto number field. start_number integer, mandatory It specifies the starting number for the auto number sequence. A maximum of 16 digits are allowed, and only numeric characters are allowed. Ensure there are no spaces in the key. prefix string, optional It represents the prefix value to be added to the autonumber field value. A maximum of 50 characters are allowed, and only alphanumeric characters are allowed. suffix string, optional It represents the suffix value to be added to the autonumber field value. A maximum of 50 characters are allowed, and only alphanumeric characters are allowed. Note You can create one custom module in a single API call. You can create custom fields in the custom module using the POST Custom Field API . Creating a single module consumes 500 credits . You cannot create a subform module or a linking module (MxN) using the Create Custom Module API. Sample input for creating a module with a display label's datatype as "text" Copied { "modules": [ { "plural_label": "Zylkers", "singular_label": "Zylker", "profiles": [ { "id": "2423488000000015972" } ], "display_field": { "field_label": "Zylker", "data_type": "text" } } ]

---

## Delete Data Sharing Rule | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/delete-data-sharing-rule.html`

Delete Data Sharing Rule | Zoho CRM API | V8 Delete Data Sharing Rule Purpose To delete a data sharing rule from your Zoho CRM organization. Endpoints DELETE /settings/data_sharing/rules/{data_sharing_rule_ID}?module={module_API_name} Copy full URL Request Details Request URL {api-domain}/crm/{version}/settings/data_sharing/rules/{data_sharing_rule_ID} Header Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken d92d4xxxxxxxxxxxxx15f52 Scope ZohoCRM.settings.data_sharing.DELETE (or) ZohoCRM.settings.data_sharing.ALL Parameter module string, mandatory Specify the API name of the module for which the rule is configured. Use the GET - Modules Metadata API to retrieve the module API names. Sample Request Copied curl "https://www.zohoapis.com/crm/v8/settings/data_sharing/rules/2276164000002052006" -X DELETE -H "Authorization: Zoho-oauthtoken 1000.8cb99dxxxxxxxxxxxxx9be93.9b8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxf" Possible Errors REQUIRED_PARAM_MISSING HTTP 400 Required parameter is missing Resolution: Specify the "module" parameter. Use the GET - Modules Metadata API to retrieve the module API names. CANNOT_PROCESS HTTP 400 Cannot process your request Resolution: The data sharing rule you are trying to delete is currently in the scheduler process. The API will work for other rules only after the scheduler completes its execution. Please try again later. INVALID_DATA HTTP 400 Invalid data sharing rule ID provided Resolution: Specify a valid data sharing rule ID in the URL to delete it from Zoho CRM org. Use the GET - Retrieve Data Sharing Rules API to retrieve valid IDs. INVALID_REQUEST_METHOD HTTP 400 The http request method type is not a valid one Resolution: You have specified an invalid HTTP method to access the API URL. Specify a valid request method. Refer to the Endpoints section. OAUTH_SCOPE_MISMATCH HTTP 401 Unauthorized Resolution: The client does not have a valid scope to delete the data sharing rule. Create a new token with valid scope. Refer to the Scope section. AUTHENTICATION_FAILURE HTTP 401 Authentication failed Resolution: Pass the access token in the request header of the API call. INVALID_URL_PATTERN HTTP 404 Please check if the URL trying to access is a correct one Resolution: The request URL specified is incorrect. Specify a valid request URL. Refer to the Request URL section for details. Refer to the Request URL section. INTERNAL_ERROR HTTP 500 Internal Server Error Resolution: Unexpected and unhandled exception in the server. Contact support team. Sample Response Copied { "sharing_rules": [ { "code": "SUCCESS", "details": { "id": "2276164000002052006" }, "message": "Sharing Rule deleted", "status": "success" } ] }

---

