# PART 3 BULK COMPOSITE APIs

*Auto-compiled from Zoho CRM official docs | 1 pages*

---

## Query(COQL) API | Zoho CRM API | V8
`https://www.zoho.com/crm/developer/docs/api/v8/COQL-Overview.html`

Query(COQL) API | Zoho CRM API | V8 Query API - An Overview COQL, abbreviated for CRM Object Query Language, allows users to write SQL-like queries to fetch records from Zoho CRM. Like SQL that uses table names, Query API uses module and field API names in the query. While Search API allows module-specific search, Query API allows you to retrieve records from cross-modules that are linked via lookup fields , thereby establishing joins. Table of Contents Syntax and Supported Clauses Fields and Criteria Alias Support in COQL Queries GROUP BY and Aggregate Functions Pagination Syntax and Supported Clauses Query API supports the SELECT query and the following clauses that you can use to apply conditions and retrieve records based on them from a module. In the SELECT column, you must use field API name as column names. SELECT - This statement is to select the fields you want to receive in the response. You can specify up to 500 field API names in the SELECT column of the query. You can use the Field Metadata API to get the API name of a field in a module, or go to Setup > Developer Hub > APIs and SDKs , and click the API Names tab. Choose the required module from the list of available modules and look for the API name of the desired field. WHERE - This clause is to specify the condition or criteria to filter and fetch records. You can include up to 25 criteria in this clause. Ensure to enclose the criteria in brackets properly to achieve the desired results. FROM - This clause is to specify the module's API name from which you want to retrieve records. To retrieve records from a Subform, specify the Subform module's API name. Similarly, for queries with multi-select lookup fields, query to the linking module. ORDER BY - Use this clause to sort the records in the response based on specific fields either in ascending or descending order. The default sorting is based on record ID in the ascending order. LIMIT and OFFSET - The LIMIT clause is to specify the number of matching records you want to receive in the response. The default value is 200 and the max value is 2000. OFFSET is to paginate through records. For example, if you have set this value as 10, then the system skips the first ten matching records, and retrieves the others from the 11th index. In COQL, the syntax is LIMIT offset , limit . The first value is the offset, while the next one is the limit. GROUP BY - Use this clause to retrieve data from a table by specifying the field API names as conditions in a query and group them. It helps you filter and organize the records efficiently, and group the results of a query based on one or more columns as objects in the response. In general, you can use this clause with both aggregate and non-aggregate functions. Syntax Here is the syntax of a COQL query. SELECT field_api_name1, field_api_name2 FROM base_module_api_name WHERE field_api_name comparator logical_operator field_api_name comparator ORDER BY field_api_name ASC/DESC LIMIT offset, limit Here is a sample SQL query and it's equivalent COQL query. In the query, we want to fetch the Last_Name, Created_Time fields from the Leads module. The WHERE clause has the condition. This query sorts the records in the response based on Created_Time and record ID in the ascending order as specified in the ORDER BY clause. The offset is 10 and the limit is 2, meaning that the first 10 matching records are skipped, and the next two records are retrieved in the response. SELECT Last_Name, Created_Time FROM Leads WHERE Last_Name IS NOT NULL AND Created_Time >= '2019-02-19T12:57:55+05:30' GROUP BY Last_Name, Created_Time ORDER BY Created_Time, id ASC LIMIT 10 OFFSET 2; Equivalent COQL query { "select_query" : "select Last_Name, Created_Time from Leads where (Last_Name is not null and Created_Time >= '2019-02-19T12:57:55+05:30') group by Last_Name, Created_Time order by Created_Time, id asc limit 10, 2" } Response { "data": [ { "Last_Name": "Smith", "Created_Time": "2019-11-26T12:09:48+05:30" }, { "Last_Name": "Gerald", "Created_Time": "2019-11-26T12:10:43+05:30" } ], "info": { "count": 2, "more_records": true } } Fields and Criteria The main aim of querying for records is to filter them based on some criteria. Query API lets you apply multiple criteria to various fields in the WHERE clause. When the criteria are satisfied, the matching records are rendered in the response. Consider this simple query. { "select_query":"select Last_Name, Company, Lead_Status from Leads where (Lead_Status = Contacted and Last_Name is not null) limit 2 " } In this query, Last_Name, Company, and Lead_Status are the API names of the fields in the Leads module that we want to be retrieved in the response. The WHERE clause contains the condition that the Lead_Status must have the value Contacted and the Last_Name must not be null. The = and is not null are the comparators for the respective fields. and is the group operator applied over the criteria. Like this, you can have a maximum of 25 criteri

---

